# 051 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 All praise to Him who reigns on high,

In majesty supreme,

Who gave His life for man to die,

That He might man redeem.

Blessed be the name, Blessed be the name,

Blessed be the name of the Lord;

Blessed be the name, Blessed be the name,

Blessed be the name of the Lord.

2 His name above all names shall stand,

Exalted more and more,

At God the Father’s own right hand,

Where angel hosts adore.

3 Redeemer, Savior, Friend of man

Once ruined by the fall,

Thou hast devised salvation’s plan,

For Thou hast died for all.

4 His name shall be the counsellor,

The mighty Prince of Peace,

Of all earth’s Kingdoms, conqueror,

Whose reign shall never cease.

# 052 Irregular Meter

His name is higher than any other,

His name is Jesus, His name is Lord.

His name is Wonderful,—His name is Counsellor,

His name is Prince of Peace, the mighty God.

His name is higher than any other—

His name is Jesus, His name is Lord.

# 053 6.6.6.6.8.8.

1 Join all the glorious names

Of wisdom, love, and pow’r,

That mortals ever knew,

That angels ever bore;:

All are too mean to speak His worth,

Too mean to set my Savior forth.

2 Great Prophet of my God,

My tongue would bless Thy name;

By Thee the joyful news

Of our salvation came;

The joyful news of sins forgiv’n,

Of hell subdued, and peace with heaven.

3 Jesus, my great High Priest,

Offered His blood, and died;

My guilty conscience seeks

No sacrifice beside

His pow’rful blood did once atone,

And now it pleads before the throne.

4 I love my Shepherd’s voice:

His watchful eye shall keep

My wand’ring soul among

The thousands of His sheep:

He feeds His flock, He calls their names,

His bosom bears the tender lambs.

5 My Savior and my Lord,

My conqu’ror and my King,

Thy scepter and Thy sword,

Thy reigning grace I sing:

Thine is the pow’r; behold I sit

In willing bonds beneath Thy feet.

# 054 7.8.7.8.D.

Jesus, name above all names,

Beautiful Savior, glorious Lord.

Emmanuel, God is with us,

Blessed Redeemer, living Word.

# 055 8.6.8.6.

1 Jesus! how much Thy name unfolds

To ev’ry opened ear;

The pardoned sinner’s mem’ry holds

None other half so dear.

2 Thy name encircles every grace

That God as man could show;

There only could He fully trace

A life divine below.

3 Jesus—it speaks a life of love,

Of sorrows meekly home;

It tells of sympathy above,

Whatever makes us mourn.

4 Jesus, the One who knew no sin,

Made sin to make us just;

Thou gav’st Thyself our love to win,

Our full confiding trust.

5 The mention of Thy name shall bow

Our hearts to worship Thee;

The chiefest of ten thousand Thou,

Whose love has set us free.

# 056 Irregular Meter

1 How we love the glorious name,

The name of Jesus!

‘Tis the name above all names on earth or in heav’n.

As we breath this precious name,

Darkness and death cannot remain;

For we call and get the Person of that name!

2 Dear Lord Jesus, with our tongues

We gladly confess Thy name,

To the glory of the Father God above.

For to us to speak Thy praise,

Is the enjoyment of our days;

Calling JESUS is to call the One we love!

# 057 8.6.8.6. with repeat

1 How sweet the Name of Jesus sounds

In a believer’s ear!

It soothes his sorrow, heals his wounds,

And drives away his fear.

2 It makes the wounded spirit whole,

And calms the troubled breast;

’Tis manna to the hungry soul,

And to the weary rest.

3 Dear Name! the rock on which we build;

Our shield and hiding-place;

Our never-failing treasury, filled

With boundless stores of grace.

4 Jesus, our Savior, Shepherd, Friend,

Our Prophet, Priest, and King;

Our Lord, our Life, our Way, our End,

Accept the praise we bring.

5 Weak is the effort of our heart,

And cold our warmest thought;

But when we see Thee as Thou art,

We’ll praise Thee as we ought.

6 Till then we would Thy love proclaim

With every fleeting breath;

And triumph in that blessed Name

Which quells the pow’r of death.

# 058 6.4.6.4.6.6.6.4.

1 Jesus! that name we love, Jesus, our Lord!

Jesus, all names above, Jesus, the Lord!

Thou, Lord, our all must be;

Nothing that’s good have we,

Nothing apart from Thee, Jesus, our Lord!

2 As Son of Man it was, Jesus, the Lord!

Thou gav’st Thy life for us, Jesus, our Lord!

Great was indeed Thy love,

All other loves above,

Love Thou didst dearly prove, Jesus, our Lord!

3 Righteous alone in Thee, Jesus, the Lord!

Thou wilt a refuge be, Jesus, our Lord!

Whom, then, have we to fear,

What trouble, grief, or care,

Since Thou art ever near, Jesus, our Lord!

4 Soon Thou wilt come again, Jesus, the Lord!

We shall be happy then, Jesus, our Lord!

When Thine own face we see,

Then shall we like Thee be,

Then evermore with Thee, Jesus, our Lord!

# 059 8.7.8.7.

1 Glorious, mighty Name of Jesus,

Into Thy dear name I flee;

“Set aloft,” I praise and worship,

For Thy Name is victory!

2 Blessed Jesus! Mighty Savior!

In Thy Name is all I need;

Just to breathe the Name of Jesus,

Is to drink of Life indeed.

3 Glorious, mighty Name of Jesus,

Heav’n and earth its pow’r proclaim;

But forgiven sinners only,

Know the balm of Jesus’ Name.

4.  Jesus! Jesus! Name most precious,

Balm in pain or mighty sword;

In Thy Name, we live and conquer,

Blessed, glorious, coming Lord.

# 060 8.6.8.6.

1 Jesus, the name high over all,

In hell, or earth, or sky:

Angels and men before it fall,

And devils fear and fly.

2 Jesus, the name to sinners dear,

The name to sinners giv’n;

It scatters all their guilty fear,

It turns their hell to heav’n.

3 Jesus the prisoner’s fetters breaks,

And bruises Satan’s head;

Pow’r into strengthless souls He speaks,

And life into the dead.

4 Oh, that the world might taste and see,

The riches of His grace!

The arms of love that compass me,

Would all mankind embrace.

5 His only righteousness I show,

His saving truth proclaim:

’Tis all my business here below,

To cry, Behold the Lamb!

6 Happy, if with my latest breath

I may but gasp His name:

Preach Him to all, and cry in death,

“Behold, behold the Lamb!”

# 061 7.7.7.7.

1 Name of Jesus! highest Name!

Name that earth and heav’n adore!

From the heart of God it came,

Leads me to God’s heart once more.

2 Name of Jesus! living tide!

Days of drought for me are past;

How much more than satisfied

Are the thirsty lips at last!

3 Name of Jesus! dearest Name!

Bread of heav’n, and balm of love,

Oil of gladness, surest claim

To the treasures stored above.

4 Only Jesus! fairest Name!

Life and rest and peace and bliss;

Jesus, evermore the same,

He is mine and I am His!

# 062 Irregular Meter

Praise the name of Jesus,

Praise the name of Jesus:

He’s my rock, He’s my fortress,

He’s my deliverer,

In Him will I trust.

Praise the name of Jesus.

# 063 6.5.6.5.

1 Jesus, Jesus, Jesus!

Sweetest Name on earth;

How can I, a sinner,

Come to know its worth?

2 Oh! the sinful sorrow,

Oh! the strangest shame,

That I saw no beauty

In that sacred Name.

3 Never felt the sweetness!

Never knew the grace,

Never saw the love-pain

In that wounded face!

4 Never found the mystery

In that simple word—

Jesus, Jesus, Jesus,

Savior, Lover, Lord.

5 Now ’tis past and over.

Gone my guilt and shame;

Jesus, Jesus did it,

Glory to His Name!

6 Wonderful compassion,

Reaching even me;

Bows my humbled spirit

In captivity.

7 Jesus! Jesus! Jesus!

Loved me in my shame.

Oh! the joy and rapture

Of that sacred Name.

# 064 Irregular Meter

1 Jesus, You’re the sweetest name of all.

Jesus,—You always hear me when I call.

Oh, Jesus,—You pick me up each time I fall,

You’re the sweetest, the sweetest name of all.

2 Jesus, how I love to praise Your name.

Jesus, you’re still the first, the last, the same.

Oh, Jesus, You died and took away my shame,

You’re the sweetest, the sweetest name of all.

3 Jesus, You’re the soon and coming King.

Jesus, we need the love that You can bring.

Oh, Jesus, we lift our voices up and sing,

You’re the sweetest, the sweetest name of all.

# 065 8.7.8.7.D.

1 There is no name so sweet on earth,

No name so sweet in heaven,

The name, before his wondrous birth

To Christ the Savior given.

We love to sing of Christ our King,

And hail Him, blessed Jesus;

For there’s no word ear ever heard

So dear, so sweet as “Jesus.”

2 And when He hung upon the tree,

They wrote this name above Him;

That all might see the reason we

Forevermore must love Him.

3 So now, upon His Father’s throne,

Almighty to release us

From sin and pain, He gladly reigns,

The Prince and Savior, Jesus.

4 O Jesus, by that matchless name,

Thy grace shall fail us never;

Today as yesterday the same,

Thou art the same forever.

# 066 10.10.10.9. with chorus

1 There have been names that I have loved to hear,

But never has there been a name so dear

To this heart of mine, as the name divine,

The precious name of Jesus.

Jesus is the sweetest name I know,

And He’s just the same as His lovely name.

And that’s the reason why I love Him so;

O Jesus is the sweetest name I know.

2 There is no name in earth or heav’n above,

That we should give such honor and such love

As the blessed name; let us all acclaim

That wondrous, glorious name of Jesus.

3 And someday I shall see Him face to face

To thank and praise Him for His wondrous grace

Which He gave to me when He made me free;

The blessed Son of God called Jesus.

# 067 8.6.8.6.6.8.

1 Joy to the world! the Lord is come;

Let earth receive her King;

Let ev’ry heart prepare Him room,

And heav’n and nature sing,

And heav’n and nature sing,

And heav’n, and heav’n and nature sing.

2 Joy to the earth! the Savior reigns;

Let men their songs employ;

While fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains

Repeat the sounding joy,

Repeat the sounding joy,

Repeat, repeat the sounding joy.

3 No more let sins and sorrows grow.

Nor thorns infest the ground;

He comes to make His blessings flow

Far as the curse is found,

Far as the curse is found,

Far as, far as the curse is found.

4 He rules the world with truth and grace,

And makes the nations prove

The glories of His righteousness,

And wonders of His love,

And wonders of His love,

And wonders, wonders of His love.

# 068 Irregular Meter

1 Down from His glory,

Ever living story,

My God and Savior came,

And Jesus was His name.

Born in a manger,

To His own a stranger,

A man of sorrows, tears and agony.

O how I love Him! How I adore Him!

My breath, my sunshine, my all in all!

The great Creator became my Savior,

And all God’s fullness dwelleth in Him.

2 What condescension,

Bringing us redemption;

That in the dead of night,

Not one faint hope in sight,

God, gracious, tender,

Laid aside His splendor,

Stooping to woo, to win, to save my soul.

3 Without reluctance,

Flesh and blood His substance,

He took the form of man,

Revealed the hidden plan.

O glorious myst’ry,

Sacrifice of Calv’ry,

And now I know Thou art the great “I AM.”

# 069 12.11.12.11.12.10.

1 Meekness and majesty, manhood and Diety,

In perfect harmony, the Man who is God.

Lord of eternity, dwells in humanity;

Kneels in humility and washes our feet.

O what a mystery, meekness and majesty;

Bow down and worship, for this is your God.

2 Father’s pure radiance, perfect in innocence;

Yet learns obedience to death on a cross.

Suff’ring to give us life, conquering through sacrifice;

And as they crucify prays, “Father, forgive.”

3 Wisdom unsearchable, God, the invisible;

Love indestructible in frailty appears.

Lord of infinity, stooping so tenderly;

Lifts our humanity to the heights of His throne.

# 070 Irregular Meter

1 O come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant,

O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem!

Come and behold Him, born the king of angels;

O come, let us adore Him,

O come, let us adore Him,

O come, let us adore Him,

Christ the Lord!

2 Sing, choirs of angels, sing in exultation!

O sing, all ye citizens of heav’n above;

Glory to God, all glory in the highest;

3 Amen! Lord, we bless Thee, born for our salvation!

O Jesus! forever be Thy Name adored;

Word of the Father, now in flesh appearing;

# 071 7.7.7.7.D. with repeat

1 Hark! the herald angels sing,

“Glory to the new-born King;

Peace on earth, and mercy mild;

God and sinners reconciled.”

Joyful, all ye nations, rise,

Join the triumph of the skies;

With angelic hosts proclaim,

“Christ is born in Bethlehem.”

(Repeat the last two lines)

2 Christ, by highest heav’n adored,

Christ, the everlasting Lord:

Late in time behold Him come,

Offspring of a virgin’s womb.

Veiled in flesh the Godhead see,

Hail th’incarnate Deity!

Pleased as man with man to dwell,

Jesus our Emmanuel.

3 Hail the heav’n-born Prince of Peace!

Hail the Sun of righteousness!

Light and life to all He brings,

Ris’n with healing in His wings:

Mild He lays His glory by,

Born that man no more may die;

Born to raise the sons of earth;

Born to give them second birth.

4 Come, Desire of nations, come!

Fix in us Thy humble home:

Rise, the woman’s conjuring seed,

Bruise in us the serpent’s head;

Adam’s likeness now efface,

Stamp Thine image in its place:

Final Adam from above,

Reinstate us in Thy love.

# 072 7.4.7.4.7.7.6.6.

1.  Praise the Lord, God sent His Son,

Hallelujah!

And salvation’s work was done,

Glory to God!

God Himself became a man,

So that we might live in Him.

That’s why I call on Him,

I give my all to Him.

2 For us He was crucified,

Hallelujah!

For the many, one Man died,

Glory to God!

One grain fell into the earth,

Many grains to bring to birth.

3 He arose in victory,

Hallelujah!

From the grave, triumphantly,

Glory to God!

Now in resurrection He

As the Spirit lives in me.

4 Call on Him from deep within,

Hallelujah!

Just by calling, He comes in,

Glory to God!

Once you call upon His name,

Nevermore you’ll be the same.

We all must call on Him,

We give our all to Him.

# 073 8.6.8.6.

1 O lord! When we the path retrace

Which Thou on earth hast trod,

To men Thy wondrous love and grace,

Thy faithfulness to God;

2 Thy love, by man so sorely tried,

Proved stronger than the grave;

The very spear that pierced Thy side

Drew forth the blood to save;

3 Though Thou didst pass through woes and grief,

Thy works were ever good;

Although midst sorrows all Thy life,

Thou spak’st no murmuring word.

4 Faithful amidst unfaithfulness,

‘Mid darkness only light,

Thou didst Thy Father’s name confess,

And in His will delight;

5 Unmoved by Satan’s subtle wiles,

Or suffering, shame, and loss,

Thy path, uncheered by earthly smiles,

Led only to the cross.

6 We wonder at Thy lowly mind,

And fain would like Thee be,

And all our rest and pleasure find

In learning, Lord, of Thee.

# 074 8.8.8.8.

1 How beauteous were the marks divine,

That in Thy meekness used to shine,

That lit Thy lonely pathway, trod

In wondrous love, O Son of God!

2 O who like Thee, so mild, so bright,

Thou Son of man, Thou Light of light?

O who like Thee did ever go

So patient, through a world of woe?

3 O who like Thee so humbly bore

The scorn, the scoffs of men, before?

So meek, so lowly, yet so high,

So glorious in humility?

4 And death, that sets the prisoner free,

Was pang, and scoff, and scorn to Thee;

Yet love through all Thy torture glowed,

And mercy with Thy life-blood flowed.

5 O wondrous Lord, my soul would be

Still more and more conformed to Thee,

And learn of Thee, the lowly One,

And like Thee, all my journey run.

# 075 7.7.7.7.

1 Lord, accept our feeble song!

Pow’r and praise to Thee belong;

We would all Thy grace record,

Holy, gracious, loving Lord!

2 Rich in glory, Thou didst stoop,

Thence is all Thy people’s hope;

Thou wast poor, that we might be

Rich in glory, Lord, with Thee.

3 Wherefore Thou high heaven didst spurn?

Wherefore Thou to earth didst turn?

Why leave heav’n to come to earth

Lonely, scorned, e’en suffering death?

4 Thou in heav’n-the glorious One!

Thou on earth-the outcast Man!

Though this suffering Thou didst know,

Love would come to bear our woe.

5 When we think of love like this,

Joy and shame our hearts possess;

Joy, that Thou couldst pity thus;

Shame, for such returns from us.

6 Yet we hope the day to see

When from every hindrance free,

When to Thee, in glory, brought,

We shall serve Thee as we ought.

7 Now, O Lord, we wait for Thee,

Wait “the blessed hope” to see.

May we ever for Thee live,

Till Thy saints Thou dost receive.

# 076 8.7.8.7.8.8.7.7.

1 Jesus! Source of life eternal!

Jesus, Author of our breath!

Victor o’er the hosts infernal,

By defeat, and shame, and death,

Thou thro’ deepest tribulation

Deigned to pass for our salvation:

Thousand, thousand praises be,

Lord of glory, unto Thee!

(Repeat the last two lines)

2 Thou, O Son of God! wert bearing

Cruel mockings, hatred, scorn;

Thou, the King of glory, wearing,

For our sake, the crown of thorn:

Dying, Thou didst us deliver

From the chains of sin for ever;

Thousand, thousand praises be,

Precious Savior, unto Thee!

3 All the shame men heaped upon

The Thou didst patiently endure;

Not the pains of death too bitter,

Our redemption to procure;

Wondrous Thy humiliation

To accomplish our salvation:

Thousand, thousand praises be,

Precious Savior, unto Thee!

4 Heart-felt praise and adoration,

Savior, thus to Thee we give:

For Thy life’s humiliation,

For Thy death, whereby we live;

All the grief Thou wert enduring,

All the bliss Thou wert securing,

Evermore the theme shall be,

Of thanksgivings, Lord, to Thee.

# 077 8.8.8.8.

1 When I survey the wondrous cross

On which the Prince of glory died

My richest gain I count but loss,

And pour contempt on all my pride.

2 Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast,

Save in the cross of Christ my God;

All the vain things that charm me most,

I sacrifice them to His blood.

3 See from His head, His hands, His feet,

Sorrow and love flow mingled down;

Did e’er such love and sorrow meet,

Or thorns compose so rich a crown?

4 His dying crimson like a robe,

Spreads o’er His body on the tree;

Then am I dead to all the globe,

And all the globe is dead to me.

5 Were the whole realm of nature mine,

That were an offering far too small:

Love so amazing, so divine,

Demands my heart, my life, my all!

# 078 7.6.7.6.D.

1 O Head once full of bruises,

So full of pain and scorn!

Mid other sore abuses,

Mocked with a crown of thorn:

O Head e’en now surronded

With brightest majesty,

In death once bowed and wounded

On the accursed tree:

2 Thou Countenance transcendent!

Thou life-creating Sun!

To worlds on Thee dependent

Yet bruised and spit upon:

O Lord, what Thee tormented

Was our sins’ heavy load,

We had the debt augmented

Which Thou didst pay in blood.

3 We give Thee thanks unfeigned,

O Savior, Friend in need,

For what Thy soul sustained

When Thou for us didst bleed.

Grant us to lean unshaken

Upon Thy faithfulness,

Until, to glory taken,

We see Thee face to face.

# 079 8.6.8.6.8.6.

1 O Christ, what burdens bow’d

Our load was laid on Thee;

Thou stoodest in the sinner’s stead,

Didst bear all ill for me.

A victim led; Thy blood was shed;

Now there’s no load for me.

2 Death and the curse were in our cup;

O Christ, ’twas full for Thee!

But Thou hast drained the last dark drop—

’Tis empty now for me.

That bitter cup—love drank it up;

Now blessings’ draught for me.

3 Jehovah lifted up His rod,

O Christ, it fell on Thee!

Thou wast sore stricken of Thy God;

There’s not one stroke for me.

Thy tears, Thy blood, beneath it flowed;

Thy bruising healeth me.

4 The tempest’s awful voice was heard,

O Christ, it broke on Thee!

Thy open bosom was my ward,

It braved the storm for me.

Thy form was scarred, Thy visage marred;

Now cloudless peace for me.

5 Jehovah bade His sword awake,

O Christ, it woke ‘gainst Thee!

Thy blood the flaming blade must slake;

Thy heart its sheath must be—

All for my sake, my peace to make;

Now sleeps that sword for me.

6 For me, Lord Jesus, Thou hast died,

And I have died in Thee,

Thou’rt ris’n: my bands are all untied,

And now Thou liv’st in me.

When purified, made white, and tried,

Thy glory then for me!

# 080 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Lord, we treasure with affection

All Thy path of sorrow here,

And those closing scenes of anguish

To our hearts Thyself endear.

We will praise Thee! We will praise Thee!

Praise Thee, Lord, for sinners slain!

Give Thee glory! Give Thee glory!

Give Thee glory for the life we gain!

2 Deep Thy sorrow then, Lord Jesus,

Deeper far than thought can reach;

Grief intense and suff’rings holy,

Far beyond all tongues to teach.

3 None could follow there, blest Savior,

When redemption’s work was done;

For those suff’rings, deep, unfathomed,

Were, Lord Jesus, Thine alone!

4 Thou didst measure then sin’s distance,

Darkness, wrath and curse were Thine;

Man-betrayed, by God forsaken;

Thus we learn Thy love divine!

# 081 Irregular Meter

1 Oh, hallelujah, what a death

Christ died upon the cross!

Not only was he dying there

But everything that death did share:

God was included too,

All men with me and you—

Oh, hallelujah, for such a cross!

2 Oh, praise the Lord, man died in God

And to an end was brought!

Now from this man I’m wholly free

For God has terminated me!

Oh, what a wondrous death,

Oh, what a wondrous death;

Oh, hallelujah, for such a death!

3 Oh, praise the Lord, God died in man,

In man to be released.

The grain of wheat fell to the ground,

And now a multitude is found

Filled with the life of God,

Filled with the life of God;

Oh, hallelujah, for such a life!

4 Lord, how we praise You for Your cross,

Your all-inclusive death!

The center of the universe,

It has untold, eternal worth!

Lord, how we love Your cross,

Lord, how we love Your cross;

Oh, hallelujah, for such a cross!

# 082 8.7.8.7.8.7. with repeat

1 Lamb of God so pure and spotless,

Lamb of God for sinners slain.

Thy shed blood has wrought redemption,

Cleansing us from every stain,

Lamb redeeming, Lamb redeeming,

Bearing all our sins away,

Bearing all our sins away!

2 Brazen serpent, to Thee looking,

Son of Man, uplifted high.

Thou didst bear the flesh of sin in

Likeness on the cross to die.

Old creation’s termination;

Finished, Satan and the world,

Finished, Satan and the world!

3 Grain of wheat, so small and lowly.

Without death abides alone;

Life divine enclosed within it,

Into death it must be sown.

Life releasing, Christ increasing,

Many grains to bring to birth,

Many grains to bring to birth!

4 Lamb of God—our soul’s redemption,

Brazen serpent—Satan’s end,

Grain of wheat—life’s reproduction,

Now with many grains we blend.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

What an all-inclusive death,

What an all-inclusive death!

# 083 8.6.8.6.

1 Behold! a spotless Victim dies,

My Surety on the tree;

The Lamb of God, the Sacrifice,

He gave Himself for me!

2 Whatever curse was mine, He bore;

The wormwood and the gall,

There, in that lone mysterious hour,

My cup—He drained it all!

3 Lord Jesus! Thou, and none beside,

Its bitterness could know,

Nor other tell Thy joy’s full tide

That from that cup shall flow.

4 Thine is the joy, but yet ’tis mine.

’Tis ours as one with Thee;

My joy flows from that grief of Thine;

Thy death brings life to me!

5 And while the ages roll along,

This shall my glory be;

And this the new and endless song,

Thy love to us—to me!

# 084 Irregular Meter

1 God was born a human being

As the Babe of Bethlehem,

Passed He then through human living,

Perfect blend of God with men.

God, according to His plan,

Lived a mingled life with man.

Hallelujah, Hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

2 Then with God this man was blended

On the altar as He died;

God and man and all creation

On the cross were crucified.

Man and all of God’s creation,

Sunk in total termination.

Hallelujah, Hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

3 Everything we are was ended.

Terminated on the cross,

Only man in God ascended,

Man in Adam suffered loss.

Hallelujah, we’re elated,

Our old man was terminated.

Hallelujah, Hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

4 Like the grain of wheat that’s buried

In the earth to be increased,

God’s own life the death must suffer,

Thus in man to be released.

Oh, the Lord of all be praised;

God released in man is raised!

Hallelujah, Hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

# 085 7.7.7.7.

1 Crowned with thorns upon the tree,

Silent in Thine agony;

Dying, crushed beneath the load

Of the wrath and curse of God.

2 On Thy pale and suff’ring brow,

Mystery of love and woe;

On Thy grief and sore amaze,

Savior, I would fix my gaze!

3 On Thy holy, loving breast

Thou dost bid the weary rest;

Rest there from the world’s false ways,

Rest there from its vanities.

4 Rest in pardon and relief,

From the load of guilt and grief;

Rest in Thy redeeming blood,

Rest in perfect peace with God.

5 Sin-atoning Sacrifice,

Thou art precious in mine eyes;

Thou alone my rest shall be,

Now and thro’ eternity.

# 086 6.6.6.6.8.8.

1 Himself He could not save,

He on the cross must die,

Or mercy could not come

To ruined sinners nigh;

Yes, Christ, the Son of God, must bleed,

That sinners might from sin be freed.

That sinners might from sin be freed.

2 Himself He could not save,

For justice must be done;

Our sins’ full weight must fall

Upon the sinless One;

For nothing less can God accept

In payment of that fearful debt.

In payment of that fearful debt.

3 Himself He could not save,

For He the Surety stood

For all who now rely

Upon His precious blood;

He bore the penalty of guilt

When on the cross His blood was spilt.

When on the cross His blood was spilt.

4 Himself He could not save,

What wondrous love is this!

In love Himself He gave,

There ne’er was love like His!

Such love should melt a heart of stone,

Till praise flows forth to Him alone!

Till praise flows forth to Him alone!

# 087 8.8.8.8.D.

1 On Calvary’s brow my Savior died

‘Twas there my Lord was crucified;

‘Twas on the cross He bled for me

And purchased there my pardon free.

O Calvary! dark Calvary!

Where Jesus shed His blood for me;

O Calvary! blest Calvary!

‘Twas there my Savior died for me.

2 ‘Mid rending rocks and darkening skies

My Savior bows His head and dies;

The opening veil reveals the way

To life divine and endless day.

3 O Jesus, Lord, how can it be

That Thou shouldst give Thy life for me,

To bear the cross and agony

In that dread hour on Calvary!

# 088 8.6.8.6.8.8.8.6.

1 Behold! behold the Lamb of God,

On the cross! On the cross!

For us He shed His precious blood,

On the cross! On the cross!

O hear His all-important cry,

“Eli, lama sabachthani?”

Draw near and see the Savior die,

On the cross! On the cross!

2 Behold His arms extended wide,

On the cross! On the cross!

Behold His bleeding hands and side,

On the cross! On the cross!

The sun withholds its rays of light,

The heav’ns are clothed in shades of night,

While Jesus wins the glorious fight,

On the cross! On the cross!

3 By faith we see Him lifted up,

On the cross! On the cross!

He drinks for us the bitter cup,

On the cross! On the cross!

The rocks do rend, the mountains quake.

While Jesus all our sins doth take,

While Jesus suffers for our sake,

On the cross! On the cross!

4 And now the mighty deed is done,

On the cross! On the cross!

The battle fought, the vict’ry won,

On the cross! On the cross!

To heav’n He turns triumphant eyes;

It is finished” now, the conqu’ror cries,

Then bows His sacred head and dies,

On the cross! On the cross!

5 But now He’s ris’n, ascended, crowned,

On the throne’ On the throne’.

Heav’n’s highest place for Him is found,

On the throne’ On the throne!

Our hearts we low in worship bow,

And join, as one, to hail Him now:

“Worthy, O Lamb of God, art Thou!”

On the throne! On the throne!

# 089 8.6.8.6.

1 Alas! and did my Savior bleed?

And did my Sov’reign die,

Would He devote that sacred head

For such a worm as I?

2 Was it for sins that I had done

He groaned upon the tree?

Amazing pity! grace unknown!

And love beyond degree!

3 Well might the sun in darkness hide,

And shut his glories in,

When the incarnate Maker died

For man, His creature’s sin.

4 Thus might I hide my blushing face

While His dear cross appears,

Dissolve my heart in thankfulness,

And melt mine eyes to tears.

5 But drops of grief can ne’er repay

The debt of love I owe;

Here, Lord, I give myself away:

’Tis all that I can do.

# 090 6.6.8.6.10.12.

1 No blood, no altar now,

The sacrifice is o’er!

No flame, no smoke ascends on high,

The lamb is slain no more,

But richer blood has flowed from nobler veins,

To purge the soul from guilt,

and cleanse the reddest stains.

2 We thank Thee for the blood,

The blood of Christ, Thy Son:

The blood by which our peace is made,

Our victory is won:

Great victory o’er hell, and sin, and woe,

That needs no second fight,

and leaves no second foe.

3 We thank Thee for the grace,

Descending from above,

That overflows our widest guilt,

Th’ eternal Father’s love.

Love of the Father’s everlasting Son,

Love of the Holy Ghost,

Jehovah, Three in One.

4 We thank Thee for the hope,

So glad, and sure, and clear;

It holds the drooping spirit up

Till the long dawn appear;

Fair hope! with what a sunshine does it cheer

Our roughest path on earth,

our dreariest desert here.

5 We thank Thee for the crown

Of glory and of life;

’Tis no poor with’ring wreath of earth,

Man’s prize in mortal strife;

’Tis incorruptible as is the throne,

The kingdom of our God

and His incarnate Son.

# 091 7.7.7.8.

1 “Man of Sorrows,” what a name

For the Son of God who came

Ruined sinners to reclaim!

Hallelujah! what a Savior!

2 Bearing shame and scoffing rude,

In my place condemned He stood;

Sealed my pardon with His blood;

Hallelujah! what a Savior!

3 Guilty, vile, and helpless, we,

Spotless Lamb of God was He;

Full redemption—can it be?

Hallelujah! What a Savior!

4 Lifted up was He to die,

“It is finished!” was His cry;

Now in heaven exalted high;

Hallelujah! what a Savior!

5 When He comes, our glorious King,

All his ransomed home to bring,

Then anew this song we’ll sing:

Hallelujah! what a Savior!

# 092 8.6.8.8.6.8.8.

1 O solemn hour! O hour alone,

In solitary night,

When God the Father’s only Son,

As Man, for sinners lost, undone,

Expires—amazing sight!

The Lord of glory crucified!

The Lord of Life has bled and died!

2 O mystery of mysteries!

Of life and death the tree!

Center of two eternities,

Which look with rapt, adoring eyes,

Onward, and back to Thee!

O cross of Christ, where all His pain

And death is our eternal gain.

3 O how our inmost hearts do move,

While gazing on that cross!

The death of the incarnate Love!

What shame, what grief, what joy we prove,

That He should die for us!

Our hearts were broken by that cry,

“Eli, lama sabachthani!”

4 Worthy of death, O Lord, we were;

That vengeance was our due;

In grace Thou, spotless Lamb, didst bear

Thyself our sins, and guilt, and fear;

Justice our Surety slew.

With Thee, our Surety, we have died;

With Thee, we there were crucified.

5 Quickened with Thee with life divine,

Raised with Thee from the dead;

Thine Own, now human and divine,

Shall with Thee in Thy glories shine,

The Church’s living Head!

We, who were worthy but to die,

Now with Thee, “Abba Father,” cry.

# 093 6.6.8.6.

1 Jesus, the sinner’s Friend,

We hid ourselves in Thee;

God looks upon Thy sprinkled blood,

It is our only plea.

2 He hears Thy precious Name,

We claim it as our own;

The Father must accept and bless

His well-beloved Son.

3 Thou hast fulfilled the law,

And we are justified:

Ours is the blessing, Thine the curse;

We live, for Thou hast died.

4 Jesus, the sinner’s Friend!

We cannot speak Thy praise;

No mortal voice can sing the song

That ransomed hearts would raise.

5 But when before the throne,

Thy face we all shall see,

Clothed in our blood-bought robes of white,

We’ll stand complete in Thee.

6 Jesus, we’ll give Thee then

Such praises as are meet,

And give ten thousand thanks to Thee,

Adoring, at Thy feet.

# 094 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 How sweet is the story of Christ’s boundless love,

That brought Him to suffer from glory above!

He died in our stead upon Calvary’s tree,

Obtaining redemption that we might be free.

Sound His praise! Sound His praise!

All the work has been done;

Praise his name! Praise his name!

Jesus, God’s blessed Son.

We give him the glory, our Savior and Friend;

Our song is of Jesus and never will end.

2 How wondrous the story! the law’s holy claims

Were met by the blood which redemption proclaims.

The judgment of sin has been borne by the Son,

Who glorified God in the work He has done.

3 How brilliant the glory where Christ is enthroned

How rightly His name above others is owned!

Yes, Jesus, the Savior, the glory-crowned Lord,

Is worthy by all to be ever adored.

# 095 6.6.8.6.

1 Not all the blood of beasts,

On Jewish altars slain,

Could give the guilty conscience peace,

Or wash away its stain.

2 But Christ, the heavenly Lamb,

Takes all our sins away;

A sacrifice of nobler name,

And richer blood than they.

3 My faith would lay her hand

On that dear head of Thine,

While like a penitent I stand,

And there confess my sin.

4 My soul looks back to see

The burdens Thou didst bear

When hanging on the cursed tree,

And knows her guilt was there.

5 Believing, we rejoice

To see the curse remove;

We bless the Lamb with cheerful voice,

And sing His bleeding love.

# 096 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Hail, Thou once despised Jesus!

Hail, Thou still rejected King!

Thou didst suffer to release us,

Thou didst free salvation bring;

Thro’ Thy death and resurrection,

Bearer of our sin and shame!

We enjoy divine protection,

Life and glory thro’ Thy name.

2 Paschal Lamb, by God appointed,

All our sins on Thee were laid;

By our Father’s love anointed,

Thou redemption’s price hast paid

All who trust Thee are forgiven

Thro’ the virtue of Thy blood;

Opened is the gate of heaven,

Grace shines forth to man from God.

3 Savior, hail! enthroned in glory,

Where for us Thou dost abide:

We, by faith, do now adore Thee,

Seated at Thy Father’s side.

There, for us Thou now art pleading,”

There Thou dost our sorrows share.

Ever for us interceding,

Till in glory we appear.

4 Worship, honor, praise, and blessing,

Thou art worthy to receive;

Loudest praises, without ceasing,

Meet it is for us to give.

In that day Thy saints will meet Thee,

Welcome Thee with grateful song;

Joyful hearts will ever greet Thee,

Source of joy to all the throng!

# 097 8.8.8.8.

1 How pleasant is the sound of praise!

It well becomes the saints of God;

Should we refuse our songs to raise,

The stones might tell our shame abroad.

2 For Him Who washed us in His blood.

Let us our sweetest songs prepare;

He sought us wandering far from God,

And now preserves us by His care.

3 One string there is of sweetest tone,

Reserved for sinners saved by grace;

‘Tis sacred to one class alone

And touched by one peculiar race.

4 Though angels may with rapture see

How mercy flows in Jesus’ blood,

It is not theirs to prove, as we,

The cleansing virtue of this flood.

5 Though angels praise the heavenly King,

And worship Him as God alone,

We can with exultation sing,

“He wears our nature on the throne.”

6 Lord, we adore Thy wondrous love,

Which brought Thee here to bleed and die

That Thou lost sinners may restore

And to the Father bring them nigh.

# 098 8.7.8.7.8.7.

1 Hark! the voice of love and mercy

Sounds aloud from Calvary;

See, it rends the rocks asunder,

Shakes the earth, and veils the sky:

“It is finished!” “It is finished!”

Hear the dying Savior cry.

2 “It is finished!” Oh, what pleasure

Do these charming words afford!

Heavenly blessings without measure

Flow to us from Christ, the Lord:

“It is finished!” “It is finished!”

Saints, the dying words record.

3 Finished all the types and shadows

Of the ceremonial law!

Finished all that God had promised;

Death and hell no more shall awe:

“It is finished!” “It is finished!”

Saints, from hence your comfort draw.

4 Tune your harps anew, ye seraphs,

Join to sing the pleasing theme;

All on earth and all in heaven

Join to praise Emmanuel’s name:

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

Glory to the bleeding Lamb!

# 099 10.11.11.11. with chorus

1 Thine be the glory, risen, conqu’ring Son,

Endless is the vict’ry Thou o’er death hast won;

Angels in bright raiment rolled the stone away,

Kept the folded grave-clothes, where Thy body lay.

Thine be the glory, risen, conqu’ring Son,

Endless is the vict’ry thou o’er death hast won.

2 Lo! Jesus meets us, risen from the tomb;

Lovingly He greets us, scatters fear and gloom;

Let the Church with gladness, hymns of triumph sing,

For her Lord now liveth, death hath lost its sting.

3 No more we doubt Thee, glorious Prince of Life!

Life is nought without Thee; aid us in our strife;

Make us more than conjurors, through Thy deathless

love;

May we in Thy Kingdom reign with Thee above.

# 100 10.10.10.10.

1 The Lord is ris’n; and death’s dark judgment flood

Is passed, in Him who bought us with his blood.

The Lord is ris’n: we stand beyond the doom

Of all our sin, through Jesus’ empty tomb.

2 The Lord is ris’n: with Him we also rose,

And in His grave see vanquished all our foes.

The Lord is ris’n: beyond the judgment land,

In Him, in resurrection-life we stand.

3 The Lord is ris’n: and now redeemed to God,

We tread the desert which His feet have trod.

The Lord is ris’n: the sanctu’ry’s our place,

Where now we dwell before the Father’s face.

4 The Lord is ris’n: the Lord is gone before.

We long to see Him, and to sin no more.

The Lord is ris’n: our triumph-shout shall be,

“Thou hast prevailed! Thy people, Lord, are free!”
