# 112 8.7.8.7.7.7.8.7. Psalm 68

1.  God shall rise, His foes be scattered,

All that hate Him flee away.

As the wax before the fire,

All the wicked He shall slay.

But righteous shall rejoice

With a loud, triumphant voice,

Singing praises, singing praises,

Singing praises unto God!

2.  He is riding through the deserts,

Bringing in His saints in need.

He’s a Father to the orphans,

And a refuge tried indeed.

In His holy habitation—

What a wonderful salvation!

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

3.  Here the lone have found a family,

Here the desolate a home;

Prisoners are brought from bondage

To prosperity unknown.

For the flock—what wondrous grace—

God prepared this dwelling place:

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

4.  Now the Lord in mighty triumph

Sends the news of victory;

We the “women” spread the tidings—

“Kings of armies flee, they flee!”

No more sweat and dreary toil;

We at home divide the spoil!

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

5.  Lo, on high Christ hath ascended,

Leading captives in His train;

These as gifts He has perfected

That the Lord may dwell with them.

Brothers, sisters, we are those,

We’re those transformed, vanquished foes’

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

6.  Blessed be the Lord forever:

Day by day He loads with good,

E’en the God of our salvation—

Spread His worthy praise abroad.

His the goings forth from death,

Every foe He conquereth!

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

7.  They have seen, O God,

Thy goings In Thy holy dwelling place,

Thy triumphal, high processions

Midst a mighty voice of praise.

See the singers go before,

Praising, praising o’er and o’er:

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

8.  Saints, thy strength has been commanded

From the temple glorious;

Still we pray that God may strengthen

All that He has wrought for us.

Higher yet our praise shall rise

Till the utmost earth replies:

Hallelujah, hallelujah,

Hallelujah, Amen!

