# 151 7.6.7.6.D.

1 O Christ, He is the fountain,

The deep, sweet well of life:

Its living streams I’ve tasted

Which save from grief and stife.

And to an ocean fullnes,

His mercy doth expand;

His grace is all-sufficient

As by His wisdom planned.

2 O I am my Beloved’s,

And my Beloved’s mine;

He brings a poor vile sinner

Into His house of wine!

I stand upon His merit;

I know no other stand.

I’m hidden in His presence

And held by His own hand.

3 The Bride eyes not her garment,

But her dear Bridegroom’s face;

I will not gaze at glory,

But on my King of grace:

Not at the crown He giveth,

But on His pierced hand;

The Lamb is all the glory,

And my eternal stand!

# 152 6.6.4.6.6.6.4.

1 Glory to Christ on high!

Let praises fill the sky!

Praise ye His name:

He all our sorrows bore;

Angels His name adore,

And saints cry evermore,

“Worthy the Lamb!”

2 All they around the throne

Cheerfully join in one,

Praising His name:

We who have known His blood

Sealing our peace with God,

Spread His dear name abroad;

Worthy the Lamb!

3 Join all the human race

Our Lord, God’s Christ, to bless,

Praise ye His name:

In Him we will rejoice,

Making a cheerful noise,

Saying with heart and voice,

“Worthy the Lamb!”

4 Though we must change our place,

Our hearts shall never cease

Praising His name:

To Him we’ll tribute bring,

Laud Him, our gracious King,

And, without ceasing, sing,

“Worthy the Lamb!”

# 153 8.4.8.4.8.8.8.4.

1 “Tis the Church triumphant singing,

Worthy the Lamb;

Heav’n throughout with praises ringing,

Worthy the Lamb.

Thrones and pow’rs before Him bending,

Odors sweet with voice ascending,

Swell the chorus never ending,

Worthy the Lamb.

2 Every kindred, tongue and nation,

Worthy the Lamb;

Join to sing the great salvation,

Worthy the Lamb;

Loud as mighty thunders roaring,

Floods of mighty waters pouring,

Prostrate at His feet adoring,

Worthy the Lamb.

3 Harps and songs forever sounding,

Worthy the Lamb;

Mighty grace o’er sin abounding,

Worthy the Lamb;

By His blood He dearly bought us:

Wand’ring from the fold He sought us.

And to glory safely brought us;

Worthy the Lamb.

4 Sing with blest anticipation,

Worthy the Lamb;

Through the vale of tribulation.

Worthy the Lamb;

Sweetest notes, all notes excelling,

On the theme forever dwelling.

Still untold, though ever telling.

Worthy the Lamb.

# 154 8.5.8.5.D.

1 Blessed Lord, our hallelujahs

Now to Thee we raise.

Never could we fully utter

A Thy worth and praise!

Praise the Lamb, for He is worthy!

Sweet eternal strain.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

Praise the Lord! Amen

2 Praise the Lamb! Yes, Thou art worthy,

Who didst shed Thy blood

To redeem Thy saints, and make us

Kings and priests to God!

3 Hallelujah! Thou, Lord Jesus,

Canst not cease to love;

Thine we are and Thine forever,

One with Thee above.

4 Praise the Lord! Yes, hallelujah!

Who would hush the song?

Join with saints from every nation,

Every tribe and tongue.

# 155 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 Jesus, our Lord, with what joy we adore Thee,

Chanting our praise to Thyself on the throne!

Blest in Thy presence, we worship before Thee,

Own Thou art worthy, and worthy alone.

Lord, Thou art worthy: Lord, Thou art worthy;

Lord, Thou art worthy, and worthy alone!

Blest in Thy presence, we worship before Thee,

Own Thou art worthy, and worthy alone!

2 Verily God, yet become truly human,

Lower than angels to die in our stead;

How has that long promised “Seed of the woman”

Trod on the serpent and bruised his head!

3 How didst Thou humble Thyself to be taken,

Led by Thy creatures and nailed to the cross,

Hated of men, and of God too forsaken,

Shunning not darkness, the curse, and the loss.

4 How hast Thou triumphed, and triumphed with glory,

Battled death’s forces, rolled back every wave!

Can we refrain then from telling the story?

Lord, Thou art Victor o’er death and the grave.

# 156 8.6.8.6.

1 Come, let us join our cheerful songs,

And thus approach the throne;

Had we ten thousand thousand tongues,

Our theme of joy’s but one:

2 “Worthy the Lamb that’s gone on high,

To be exalted thus!”

“Worthy the Lamb that died!” we cry,

“For He was slain for us.”

3 Jesus is worthy to receive

Honor and pow’r divine;

And blessings more than we can give

Be, Lord, forever Thine.

4 Soon shall the saints, exalted high,

A glorious anthem raise,

And all that dwell beneath the sky

Speak forth Thine endless praise.

5 Redeemed creation join in one,

T’adore the sacred name

Of Him that sits upon the throne,

And to exalt the Lamb.

# 157 8.7.8.7.8.7.

1 Glory be to Him who loved us,

Washed us from each sinful stain;

Glory be to Him who made us

Priests and kings with Him to reign;

Glory, worship, laud and blessing

To the Lamb who once was slain.

2.  Glory, worship, laud and blessing,

Thus the choir triumphant sings;

Honor, riches, power, dominion,

Thus its praise creation brings;

Thou art worthy, Thou art worthy,

Lord of lords, and King of kings.

3 Glory to the King of angels,

Glory to the Church’s King,

Glory to the King of nations,

Heaven and earth His praises sing:

Glory ever and forever

To the King of Glory bring.

# 158 6.6.6.6.8.8.

1 We come, O Christ, to Thee,

True Son of God and man,

By whom al things consist,

In whom all life began:

In Thee alone we live and move

And have our being in Thy love.

2 Thou art the Way to God,

Thy blood our ransom paid;

In Thee we face our Judge

And Maker unafraid.

Before the Throne absolved we stand:

Thy love has met Thy law’s demand.

3 Thou art the living Truth!

All wisdom dwells in Thee,

Thou Source of every skill,

Eternal Verity!

Thou great I Am! In Thee we rest,

True answer to our every quest.

4 Thou only art true Life,

To know Thee is to live

The more abundant life

That earth can never give:

O Risen Lord! We live in Thee

And Thou in us eternally!

5 We worship Thee Lord Christ,

Our Savior and our King,

To Thee our youth and strength

Adoringly we bring:

So fill our hearts that men may see

Thy life in us and turn to Thee!

# 159 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Jesus only is our message,

Jesus all our theme shall be;

We will lift up Jesus ever,

Jesus only will we see.

Jesus only, Jesus ever,

Jesus all in all we sing,

Savior, Sanctifier, and Healer,

Glorious Lord and coming King.

2 Jesus only is our Savior,

All our guilt He bore away,

He, our righteousness forever,

All our strength from day to day.

3 Jesus is our Sanctifier,

Saving us from self and sin,

And with all His Spirit’s fullness,

Filling all our hearts within.

4 Jesus only is our Healer,

All our sicknesses He bare,

And His risen life and fullness,

All His members still may share.

5 Jesus only is our Power,

He the gift of Pentecost;

Jesus, breathe Thy pow’r upon us.

Fill us with the Holy Ghost.

6 And for Jesus we are waiting,

List’ning for the Advent Call;

But ‘twill still be Jesus only,

Jesus ever, all in all.

# 160 8.7.8.7.

1 Gathered in Thy name, Lord Jesus,

Losing sight of all but Thee,

O what joy Thy presence gives us,

Calling up our hearts to Thee!

2 Loved with love which knows no measure,

Save the Father’s love to Thee,

Blessed Lord, our hearts would treasure

All the Father’s thoughts of Thee.

3 All His joy, His rest, His pleasure—

All His deep delight in Thee—

Lord, Thy heart alone can measure

What Thy Father found in Thee.

4 How He set His love upon Thee—

Called Thee His beloved Son;

Yet for us He did not spare Thee,

By Thy death our life was won.

5 O the joy, the wondrous singing,

When we see Thee as Thou art!

Thy blest name, Lord Jesus, bringing

Sweetest music to God’s heart.

6 Notes of gladness, songs unceasing,

Hymns of everlasting praise,

Psalms of glory, joy increasing,

Through God’s endless day of days.

# 161 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 O Jesus Lord, when present at Thy table,

And on the bread and on the wine we gaze;

We praise Thee, Lord, that Thou as food art able

To be enjoyed by man in many ways.

So all our being sings in praise to Thee,

How small Thou art, how small Thou art!

Of Thee we’ll eat through all eternity,

How small Thou art, how small Thou art!

2 O what a shame—when Christ with all His riches,

Has come into the world, life to supply—

That man would live, not by Him, but by teachings,

So powerless these riches to apply.

But all we need to do is eat the Lord;

He’s marvelous, He’s wonderful!

And as we eat, we’re inwardly restored;

Christ grows in us, grows to the full.

3 O Jesus Christ, Thou camest not to mankind

To be a king, to rule us outwardly.

But Thou hast come as food to satisfy us,

And by Thy life to guide us inwardly.

(First chorus)

4 We praise Thee, Lord, for all Thy glorious grandeur,

For all Thy strength and majesty replete;

And yet, O Lord, what special thanks we give Thee,

That all Thou art is small enough to eat.

(First chorus)

# 162 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 Lord, Thou art our peace off’ring;

We lay our hands on Thee.

We’re one with Thee, Lord Jesus,

In fact and practically.

Here in the tent of meeting

We offer Thee to God

And with the Father feasting

Enjoy Thee as our food.

Christ is our peace! Christ is our peace!

We praise Thee, blessed, Lord!

Our peace with God, our peace with man

Have fully been restored.

2 O what a peace it gives us

To see the sprinkled blood.

The blood of our peace offering

Has brought us peace with God.

With boldness we’re proclaiming—

Now hear this, enemy—

“Peace by the blood of Jesus!”

This is our victory.

3 Based on the burnt oblation

And the meal offering too,

We now may offer Jesus

As our peace offering true.

The more we eat and drink Him

In His humanity,

The more we may enjoy Him

While feasting corporately.

4 Here God enjoys His portion—

’Tis inward, hidden, sweet—

And all the priestly family

May here the wave breast eat.

The offering priest—how precious—

May of the best partake:

He gets the right heave shoulder

And one unleavened cake.

5 How sweet to eat the wave breast,

The all-embracing love

Of Christ in resurrection!

It sets us all above.

What strength to eat the shoulder

Of the ascended One

And with the cake be nourished

To walk as He has done.

6 With all the cleansed ones feasting,

How rich the Christ we eat!

Oh, this is true communion,

The only way to meet.

We bring our full thanksgiving

And e’en would make a vow

We’re for the Lord’s great purpose

As He is for us now.

What fellowship, what fellowship

With God and man we share!

O what a joy, O what a feast

With all God’s people here.

# 163 Irregular Meter

1 Praise Him! praise Him! Jesus our blessed Redeemer!

Sing, ye saints! His wonderful love proclaim!

Hail Him! hail Him Mightiest angels in glory;

Strength and honor give to His holy name!

Like a shepherd, Jesus will feed His people,

In His arms He carries them all day long;

O ye saints that live in the light of His presence,

Praise Him! praise Him! ever in joyful song!

2 Praise Him! praise Him! Jesus, our blessed Redeemer,

For our sins He sufferedand bled and died;

He, our Rock, our Hope of eternal salvation,

Hail Him! hail Him! Jesus, the Crucified;

Loving Savior, meekly enduring sorrow,

Crowned with thorns that cruelly pierced His brow;

Once for us rejected, despised, and forsaken,

Prince of Glory, ever triumphant now.

3 Praise Him! praise Him! Jesus, our blessed Redeemer,

Heavenly portals, loud with hosannahs ring!

Jesus, Savior, reigneth for ever and ever;

Crown Him! crown Him! Prophet and Priest and King!

Death is vanquished! Tell it with joy, ye faithful,

Where is now thy victory, boasting grave?

Jesus lives! No longer thy portals are cheerless;

Jesus lives, the mighty and strong to save.

# 164 4.8.4.6.

1 In my life, Lord,

Be glorified, be glorified.

In my life, Lord,

Be glorified today.

2 In Your church, Lord,

Be glorified, be glorified.

In Your church, Lord,

Be glorified today.

# 165 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Lamb of God! our souls adore Thee,

While upon Thy face we gaze;

There the Father’s love and glory

Shine in all their brightest rays;

Thine Almighty pow’r and wisdom

All creation’s works proclaim;

Heav’n and earth alike confess Thee

As the ever great “I AM.”

2 Lamb of God! Thy Father’s bosom

Ever was Thy dwelling place;

His delight, in Him rejoicing,

One with Him in pow’r and grace;

O what wondrus love and mercy!

Whou didst lay Thy glory by;

And for us didst come from heaven

As the Lamb of God to die.

3 Lamb of God! When we behold Thee

Lowly in the manger laid,

Wand’ring as a homeless stranger

In the world Thy hands had made;

When we see Thee in the garden

In Thine agony of blood,

At Thy grace we are confounded,

Holy, spotless Lamb of God!

4 When we see Thee, as the victim,

Bound to the accursed tree,

For our guilt and folly stricken,

All our judgment borne by Thee,

Lord, we own, with hearts adoring,

Thou hast loved us unto blood;

Glory, glory everlasting

Be to Thee, Thou Lamb of God.

5 Lamb of God, Thou soon in glory

Wilt to this sad earth return;

All Thy foes shall quake before Thee,

All that now despise Thee mourn;

Then Thy saints all gathered to Thee,

With Thee in Thy kingdom reign;

Thine the praise and Thine the glory,

Lamb of God, for sinners slain!

# 166 7.7.7.3.

1 O come, let us adore Him,

O come, let us adore Him,

O come, let us adore Him,

Christ the Lord.

2 We’ll praise His name forever,

We’ll praise His name forever,

We’ll praise His name forever,

Christ the Lord.

3 We’ll give Him all the glory,

We’ll give Him all the glory,

We’ll give Him all the glory,

Christ the Lord.

4 For He alone is worthy,

For He alone is worthy,

For He alone is worthy,

Christ the lord.

# 167 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 Ten thousand thanks to Jesus,

Whose life our ransom paid,

Whose blood a full redemption

For all the world has made:

Let ev’ry heart adore Him;

Let ev’ry creature sing

Ten thousand thanks to Jesus,

Our Savior and our King.

Ten thousand thanks, then thousand thanks.

We’ll praise Him o’er and o’er,

And for the life with Him to live,

Ten thousand thousand more.

2 Ten thousand hearts to Jesus

How gladly would we give;

Ten thousand lives to Jesus,

Had we so long to live;

Ten thousand tongues shall praise Him,

Ten thousand songs ascend

To Him, our blest Redeemer,

To Him, our dearest Friend.

3 Ten thousand thanks to Jesus

For blessing ev’ry hour;

Ten thousand times ten thousand,

For love’s redeeming pow’r;

And when He comes in glory

His blessed face we’ll see,

His love thro’ endless ages

Our sweetest song shall be.

# 168 Irregular Meter

Blessing and honor and glory be Thine,

And glory be Thine, And glory be Thine.

Blessing and honor and glory be Thine,

Both now and evermore.

Praise Him! Praise Him! All ye saints adore Him.

Praise Him! Praise Him! Both now and evermore.

Hallelujah!

Blessing and honor and glory be Thine,

And glory be Thine, And glory be Thine.

Blessing and honor and glory be Thine,

Both now and evermore.

# 169 6.6.6.6.6.6.

1 When morning gilds the skies,

My heart awaking cries:

May Jesus Christ be praised!

Alike at work and prayer

To Jesus I repair:

May Jesus Christ be praised!

2 To Thee, my God above,

I cry with glowing love,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

The fairest graces spring

In hearts that ever sing,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

3 Does sadness fill my mind?

A solace here I find,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

Or fades my earthly bliss?

My comfort still is this,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

4 When evil thoughts molest,

With this I shield my breast,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

The powers of darkness fear,

When this sweet chant they hear,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

5 When sleep her balm denies,

My silent spirit sighs,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

The night becomes as day,

When from the heart we say,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

6 Be this, while life is mine,

My canticle divine,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

Be this th’eternal song

Through all the ages long,

May Jesus Christ be praised!

# 170 Irregular Meter

I love You, Lord, and I lift my voice

To worship You, O my soul, rejoice.

Take joy, my King, in what You hear,

May it be a sweet, sweet sound in Your ear.

# 171 12.12.12.6. with chorus

1.  Oh, spread the tidings ‘round,

wherever man is found,

Wherever human hearts

and human woes abound;

Let ev’ry Christian tongue

proclaim the joyful sound:

The Comforter has come!

The Comforter has come,

The Comforter has come!

The Holy Ghost from heav’n,

The Lord’s dear promise giv’n;

Oh, spread the tidings ‘round,

Wherever man is found—

The Comforter has come!

1.  The long, long night is past,

the morning breaks at last;

And hushed the dreadful

wail and fury of the blast,

As o’er the golden hills

the day advances fast!

The Comforter has come!

1.  Lo, the great King of kings,

with healing in His wings,

To every captive soul

a full deliv’rance brings;

And through the vacant cells

the song of triumph rings:

The Comforter has come!

1.  O boundless love divine!

how shall this tongue of mine

To wond’ring mortals tell

the matchless grace divine—

That I, a child of hell,

should in His image shine!

The Comforter has come!

# 172 Irregular Meter

1 Fainting in the desert, Israel’s thousands stand

At the rock of Kadesh. Hark! The Lord’s command,

Speak to the Rock, Bid the waters flow,

Strike not its bosom Opened long ago,

Speak to the Rock, ‘Till the waters flow.

Speak to the Rock, Bid the waters flow,

Doubt not the Spirit, Given long ago;

Take what He waiteth, Freely to bestow,

Drink till its fullness All Thy being know.

2 Blessed Rock of Ages, Thou art open still;\
Blessed Holy Spirit, All our being fill;\
Still Thou dost say, Wherefore struggle so?\
Call for the Spirit, Whisper soft and low,\
Speak to the Rock Bid the waters flow.

3 Oh, for trust more simple, Fully to believe;

Oh, for hearts more childlike, Freely to receive;

E’en as a babe, On its mother’s breast,

So on Thy bosom Let my spirit rest,

Filled with Thy life, With Thy blessing blest.

# 173 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Joys are flowing like a river,

Since the Comforter has come;

He abides with us forever,

Makes the trusting heart His home.

Blessed quietness, holy quietness—

What assurance in my soul!

On the stormy sea He speaks peace to me.

How the billows cease to roll!

2 Bringing life and health and gladness

All around, this heavenly Guest

Banished unbelief and sadness,

Changed our weariness to rest.

3 Like the rain that falls from heaven,

Like the sunlight from the sky,

So the Holy Ghost is given,

Coming to us from on high.

4 See a fruitful field is growing

Blessed fruits of righteousness,

And the streams of life are flowing

In the lonely wilderness.

5 What a wonderful salvation

Where we always see His face!

What a perfect habitation!

What a quiet resting place!

# 174 7.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Rivers of living water,

Rivers that flow from the throne,

Rivers o’erflowing with blessing,

Coming from Jesus alone.

River of living water,

Rivers of life so free,

Flowing from Thee, my Savior,

Send now the rivers thro’ me.

2 Whoso is thirsty come hither,

Here is abundant supply;\
Water transparent as crystal,\
Come without money and buy.

3 Cleanse me, oh, cleanse me, my Savior,

Make me a channel today;

Empty me, fill me and use me,

Teach me to trust and obey.

4 Then, and then only, Lord Jesus,

Thro’ me the rivers can flow;

Thus and thus only will others

Learn Thy great fullness to know.

5 Now I surrender to Jesus,

Here I lay all at His feet;

Anything, anywhere only,

Just for His service made meet!

# 175 Irregular Meter

1 There’s a river of life flowing out thru me,

It makes the lame to walk and the blind to see;

Opens prison doors, sets the captives free,

There’s a river of life flowing out thru me.

Spring up, O well, within my soul,

Spring up, O well, and make me whole;

Spring up , O well, and give to me

That life abundantly.

2 There’s a fountain flowing from the Savior’s side,

All my sin’s forgiven in that precious tide;

Jesus paid the price. When for me He died,

There’s a fountain flowing from the Savior’s side.

3 There’s a risen Savior at the Father’s throne,

Ever interceding for His very own;

Pouring down the blessings that are His alone,

There’s a risen Savior at the Father’s throne.

4 There’s a holy Comforter who’s sent from heaven,

All the glorious gifts are His, and have been given.

He’ll show us more of Jesus ‘til the veil is riven.

There’s a holy Comforter who’s sent from heaven.

5 There’s a land of rest that we may enter now,

Freed from all our works and freed from Satan’s power,

Just resting in the Lord each moment and each hour.

There’s a land of rest that we may enter now.

6 There’s a full salvation wrought for you and me,

From faith to faith and glory to glory eternally,

O Lord, just take this life and let me live for thee,

There’s a full salvation wrought for you and me.

# 176 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 O Lord, breathe Thy Spirit on me,

Teach me how to breathe Thee in;

Help me pour into Thy bosom

All my life of self and sin.

I am breathing out my sorrow,

Breathing out my sin;

I am breathing, breathing, breathing,

All Thy fullness in.

2 I am breathing out my own life,

That I may be filled with Thine;\
Letting go my strength and weakness,\
Breathing in Thy life divine.

3 Breathing out my sinful nature,

Thou hast borne it all for me;\
Breathing in Thy cleansing fullness,\
Finding all my life in Thee.

4 I am breathing out my sorrow,\
On Thy kind and gentle breast;\
Breathing in Thy joy and comfort,\
Breathing in Thy peace and rest.

5 I am breathing out my sickness,

Thou hast borne its burden too;

I am breathing in Thy healing,

Ever promised, ever new.

6 I am breathing out my longings

In Thy listening, loving ear;

I am breathing in Thy answers,

Stilling every doubt and fear.

7 I am breathing every moment,

Drawing all my life from Thee;

Breath by breath I live upon Thee,

Lord, Thy Spirit breathe in me.

# 177 8.6.8.6.D.

1 Praise waiteth Thee in Zion’s Courts,

Where Thy beloved dwell;

Ransomed, redeemed from Satan’s thrall,

Their Hallelujahs swell.

Come, blessed Holy Ghost, today,

Our songs of praise inspire;

Purge the iniquity, and touch

Our lips with living fire.

2 Praise for what Thou our God hast wrought;

For promised blessings ours;

The cloud on faith’s horizon seen,

The pentecostal showers.

Praise for Thine own right way, dear Lord,

We did not understand,

But as Thy plans unfolded lie,

We see Thy guiding hand.

3 Enlarge our soul’s capacity,

Cut deeper channels, Lord;

Room for the floods of blessing now,

According to Thy Word.

E’en while we praise, the heavens rend,

In power come from on high;

Make this another Pentecost,

Answer our spirit’s cry.

# 178 6.6.6.6.D. with chorus

1 God sent His mighty pow’r

To this poor, sinful heart,

To keep me every hour,

And needful grace impart;

And since His Spirit came,

To take supreme control,

The love-enkindled flame

Is burning in my soul.

’Tis burning in my soul,

’Tis burning in my soul;

The fire of heav’nly love is

burning in my soul;

The Holy Spirit came,

All glory to His name!

The fire of heav’nly love is

burning in my soul.

2 Before the cross I bow,

Upon the altar lay

A willing off’ring now,

My all from day to day.

My Savior paid the price,

My name He sweetly calls;

Upon the sacrifice

The fire from heaven falls.

3 No good that I have done,

His promise I embrace;

Accepted in the Son,

He saves me by His grace.

All glory be to God!

Let hallelujahs roll;

His love is shed abroad,

The fire is in my soul.

# 179 11.9.11.9. with chorus

1 Now the Triune God has come to dwell within

As the wonderful Spirit in us.

We are mingled with the Lord, we’re one with Him

As the life-giving Spirit in us.

Oh, He’s the wonderful Spirit in us,

He’s the wonderful Spirit in us!

God is in the Son, the Son’s the Spirit now—

He’s the wonderful Spirit in us!

2 ""Abba Father” is the cry from deep within

From the wonderful Spirit in us.

’Tis the Spirit of the Son who cries to Him

As the life-giving Spirit in us.

3 Jesus Christ the Lord is living now in us

As the wonderful Spirit within.

He has been transfigured, we enjoy Him thus,

As the life-giving Spirit within.

4 Now the Spirit of reality is here

As the wonderful Spirit within.

Now the things of Christ are all so real and clear

By the life-giving Spirit within.

5 We will all stir up this gift that’s deep within

As the wonderful Spirit in us.

When we call “Lord Jesus” how our spirits spring

With this life-giving Spirit in us!

# 180 11.11.8.11

.

Spirit of the Living God,

Fall afresh on me.

Spirit of the Living God,

Fall fresh on me.

Melt me, mold me,

Fill me, use me.

Spirit of the Living God,

Fall fresh on me.

# 181 16.11.16.11. with chorus

1 O let the Son of God enfold you

with His Spirit and His love,

Let Him fill your life and satisfy your soul.

O let Him have the things that hold you

and His Spirit, like a dove

Will descend upon your life and make you whole.

Jesus, O Jesus,

Come and fill your lambs.

Jesus, O Jesus,

Come and fill your lambs.

2 O come and sing this song with gladness

as your hearts are filled with joy,

Lift your hands in sweet surrender to His name.

O give Him all your tears and sadness,

give Him all your years of pain

And you’ll enter into life in Jesus’ name.

(Repeat Chorus)

# 182 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 What a glory! What a blessing!

Now the Spirit dwells in me;

Testifying, truth revealing,

Shining, leading constantly.

Fill me, Lord! Fill me, Lord!

Fill me with Thy Spirit now;

Make me empty, strip me thoroughly,

Fill me with Thy Spirit now!

2 Word of promise, real within me,

Life divine now freeing me

From sin’s cruel control releasing,

From death’s power setting free.

3 Deepest springs of life desiring,

Like the hart I thirst for Thee;

May I drink, Lord, of Thy fullness

Till Thy river flows through me.

4 May my self be put to death, Lord,

Till I’m fully filled by Thee;

Transformed to Thy glorious image,

I’d forever flow out Thee.

# 183 8.7.8.7.

1 Praise the Lord, who firmly joined us

Unto the Anointed One.

Thus we all have been anointed

With th’anointing of the Son.

2 Now in Christ, in the anointing,\
We are the anointed ones.\
Oh, how blessed is this ointment\
Poured upon the many sons!

3 Hallelujah, the anointing\
Unto us God’s essence brings;\
It is now abiding in us,\
And it teaches us all things.

4 We’re the Lord’s peculiar treasure,

Purchased by His precious blood.

He has put His seal upon us,

We are those marked out by God.

5 Day by day we’re under sealing,

That we may His likeness share.

By the impress of His Person

We will Jesus’ image bear.

6 Now we have the pledge, the foretaste,

Of the Christ we soon will see.

We are longing for the full taste

God, our feast eternally.

7 God has wrought us for this purpose,

Giving us the earnest here,

Guarantee of full enjoyment

Of our Lord Himself, so dear.

8 The anointing, seal, and earnest

In our spirit are all three.

Such a wondrous, blest deposit

God has given you and me.

# 184 8.8.8.8.

1 The Holy Spirit is the seal,

The foretaste, earnest, and the pledge.

He designates us as God’s own

And guarantees our heritage.

2.  ’Twas after we believed in Christ,\
    The word of truth, the gospel, heard,

The Holy Spirit us did seal\
To show that we belong to God.

3 This Spirit as the living seal,

To us God’s image now imparts;

Conforming us unto the Son,

He stamps His image in our hearts.

4 This Spirit also is the pledge,

Our earnest and our foretaste true.

He witnesses that we are sons,

With God’s inheritance in view.

5 ’Tis by this Spirit God does spread

Into our mind, emotion, will;

By sealing every inward part,

He will our very being fill.

6 Oh Lord, we would cooperate\
With all Thy Spirit’s inward move;\
That we become Thy masterpiece,\
Th’eternal purpose thus to prove.

# 185 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 Lord, may Thy blood now cleanse me,

Wash all my sins away,

That with Thy Holy Spirit

Thou may anoint, I pary.

My service, I confess, Lord,

Is falilure-full and weak;

The filling of Thy Spirit

To live for Thee I seek.

Oh, from myself deliver,

From all its misery;

I’d henceforth be forever

Completely filled with Thee.

2 Oh, Lord, how dry my heart is,\
It yearns and pants for Thee;\
The filling of Thy Spirit\
Is now my fervent plea.\
Within the smitten Rock, Lord,\
I would entirely hide;\
Pour thru Thy living water,\
Till I am satisfied.

3 How cold my heart has been, Lord,

How slow obeying Thee;

So fill me with Thy Spirit,

I’ll ne’er rebellious be.

I lie upon Thy altar

And dare not move away;

Oh, may Thy flame descending

Consume my all, I pray.

4 Oh, may Thy Cross within me

Deepen its work and burn,

In me enlarge Thy measure.

And me to ashes turn.

Oh, may Thy Spirit fill me

Each day more than before,

And may Thy living water

On me and thru me pour.

# 186 7.7.7.7. with chorus

1 “Seven Spirits” of our God—

See, the age has now been turned

To the Spirit with the Son.

For the churches He’s concerned.

Come, O seven Spirits, come

Thy recovery work be done!

Burn and search us thoroughly,

All the churches are for Thee.

Burn us, search us,

All the churches are for Thee!

2 Sevenfold the Spirit is

For the deadness of the church,

That the saints may turn and live,

That the Lord may burn and search.

3 Now the Spirit of our God

Has become intensified:

’Tis not one but sevenfold

That the church may be supplied!

4 Now the seven Spirits are

Seven lamps of burning fire,

Not to teach us, but to burn,

Satisfying God’s desire.

5 See the seven Spirits now

Seven piercing, searching eyes.

In the church exposing us,

All the church He purifies.

6 Seven Spirits doth the Lord

For the churches now employ;

All the churches of the Lord

May this Spirit now enjoy.

# 187 9.8.9.8.

1 O Breath of Life, come sweeping through us,

Revive Thy Church with life and power;

O Breath of Life, come, cleanse, renew us,

And fit Thy Church to meet this hour.

2 O Wind of God, come bend us, break us,

Till humbly we confess our need;

Then in Thy tenderness remake us,

Revive, restore, for this we plead.

3 O Breath of Love, come breathe within us,

Renewing thought and will and heart;

Come, Love of Christ, afresh to win us,

Revive Thy Church in every part.

4 O Heart of Christ, once broken for us,

’Tis there we find our strength and rest;

Our broken, contrite hearts now solace,

And let Thy waiting Church be blest.

5 Revive us, Lord! Is zeal abating,

While harvest fields are vast and white?

Revive us, Lord, the world is waiting,

Equip Thy Church to spread the light.

# 188 8.7.8.7. D.

1 Of the Spirit, born of Spirit—

This the source of Jesusis;

Filled with Spirit, all of Spirit—

This the essence truly His.

In the Spirit, with the Spirit,

As the Spirit Jesus came;

Now the Lord is just that Spirit

And in spirit we’re the same.

2 Baptized in the Holy Spirit,

In the Spirit we’re immersed;

All the church is born of Spirit,

Living water has outburst.

In the Spirit, in the Spirit

Brothers, this is all we need.

Now the church must be in Spirit,

Not in teaching, form, or creed.

3 The communion of the Spirit

Is the fellowship we share;

All the brothers, all the sisters

Only for the Spirit care.

Now the Spirit in the churches

Speaks to those who have an ear.

Seven Spirits for the churches

Are our blessed portion here.

4 “Come and drink the living water,”

Say the Spirit and the Bride—

Church and Spirit speak together,

Utterly identified.

Just according to the Spirit

Must be our reality;

Just the Spirit in the churches

Is the Lord’s recovery.

# 189 11.11.11.11.

1 We have come, we have come to the house of God;

We have come to the house, whence out flows the flood.

On the right, day and night, constant is its flow,

Watering us and causing fruits of life to grow.

2 From the house, from the house flows this living stream,

From the house, to the earth, with the life supreme.

Yet more deep, Lord, we seek that the flow may be;

Thus we must be measured and possessed by Thee.

3 Measure us, measure us, measure every day;

Measure us, measure more, measure all the way,

Till we know that the flow is a mighty flood,

Sweeping over all the earth for Christ the Lord.

4 Take us through, take us through, take us through the flow;

Take us through, through and through, everywhere we go.

Flow increase, never cease, till we swim in Thee,

Till we are immersed in God eternally.

5 All shall live, all shall live where the river comes;

All shall live, really live, everywhere it runs.

Let the fount from this mount life abundant bring,

Till the deserts of the earth with churches spring!

# 190 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, when the Father ne’er was known,

The Father came through Thee below,

That we who lived in ignorance

Might through Thyself the Father know.

2 But, Lord, when Thou wast here on earth,

How scarce were those Thyself who knew;

A veil there was twixt Thee and them;

The crowded ‘round, but saw not through.

3 Now as the Spirit Thou hast come

E’en as the Father came in Thee;

As we through Thee the Father know,

Now through the Spirit we know Thee.

4 Not with the flesh Thou now art clothed—

Then must Thou walk with toil around;

But as the Spirit in our heart

Thou dost supply Thyself unbound.

5 Thou, Lord, the Father once wast called,

But now the Holy Spirit art;

The Spirit is Thine other form,

Thyself to dwell within our heart.

6 By knowing Thee as Spirit, Lord,

We realize Thy life’s outflow,

Thy glory and Thy character,

And all Thy being’s wonders know.

7 Praise to Thy Name now floods our heart;

There is no one as dear as Thee;

For since we know how real Thou art,

No other one could lovelier be.

# 191 8.8.8.8.

1 In all thy work, O Lord, Thou didst

At Calv’ry’s cross once come to rest;

Yet Thou art working still today,

But in another form expressed.

2 Thy saving pow’r Thou still dost show;

Thou still dost speak, enlighten, guide;

Thou and the Spirit in one stream

Sweep many in Thy living tide.

3 Through Him Thy power’s not witheld;

Through Him Thy working does not cease;

Thou still dost comfort and command,

Encourage, strengthen, and release.

4 Since Thou art with the Spirit one

His coming means that Thou hast come,

And His indwelling is Thine own,

Since Thou the Spirit hast become.

5 He executes within my heart

All Thy desires and Thy demands,

As for the Father here on earth

Thou hast performed all His commands.

6 By knowing Him we know Thyself;

Obeying Him we Thee obey;

Allowing Him ourselves to fill,

We’re filled with Thee, O wondrous way!

7 Thou art not far away in heav’n,

Leaving us here alone, apart;

But Thou art still on earth; how grand!

Thou livest right within my heart.

# 192 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, Thou didst know when in the flesh,

As such I’d know Thee shallowly;

Then as the Spirit Thou didst come

Within my spirit, known to be.

2 In flesh Redeemer mine Thou art;

As Spirit now my Comforter.

The outward touch has passed away

For inward union worthier.

3 Because Thou art the Spirit now,

Thyself revealing ceaselessly,

Within my spirit I may know

Thy presence and reality.

4 I know Thy life surpassing far

The knowledge Thy disciples had,

Although they walked and lived with Thee,

When Thou on earth in flesh wast clad.

5 Because Thy Spirit dwells within,

How real, O Lord, Thou art to me;

Not touched, yet more reliable,

Not seen, yet loved more fervently.

6 Thy Holy Spirit deep within

Supplies Thyself as righteousness,

As holiness, redemption full,

As wisdom and as fruitfulness.

7 Thy Spirit in my spirit now

Supplies Thyself, unites with me,

Thus I am all the time myself

And constantly am also Thee.

# 193 8.8.8.8.

1 Oh, Jesus, Lord, when Thou on earth

Accompanied Thy faithful band,

It seemed they knew, but knew Thee not,

Thyself they did not understand.

2 They heart Thy voice, beheld Thy form,

Thy beauteous stature unforgot;

They crowded ‘round Thee, met Thy gaze,

But who Thou art, they knew it not.

3 As they of old we too are veiled;

We’ve known Thee long apparently;

Yet if we say we know, at best

We know Thee not transparently.

4 But as the Spirit now Thou art,

Another Comforter become;

Reveal Thyself within my heart,

Since to Thy temple Thou hast come.

5 With Thy blest Spirit, Lord, fill me,

Fill every corner of my soul;

May Thou inspire my every part,

Oh may Thou touch, renew the whole.

6 The Spirit then revealing make

Thyself more real within my heart,

That ear not hear, nor eye may see

How very real to me Thou art.

7 When Thou in mercy dost reveal

And give Thyself as Spirit thus,

What in the world can be more real,

More true than what Thou art to us?

8 Thy Spirit, Lord, in mine, I pray,

O’erflow my being as a flood,

That every part with glory shine

And everywhere be Thee and God.

9 How close we are in such a life,

In one is blended earth with heav’n;

Thy presence sweetly fills our souls;

Our hearts are to Thy praises giv’n.

# 194 Irregular Meter

1.  We’ve come to love the Bible,

the precious Word of God;

It fills us with the riches and fullness of the Lord.

The grace it is infusing yields holy energy,

And life to us transfusing, it sets us free.

The Word! The Word! We love the Word of God.

Its life and light is our delight, it fills us with the Lord.

The Word! The Word, the key to all our joy!

Its jewels fine we love to mine, its riches to employ.

1.  The Bible every morning

is our supreme delight,

And ere the day is dawning, we’re here receiving light.

It ever is revealing a Christ for us to live,

And fresh supply unsealing, the power does give.

The Word! The Word! We love to take it in.

It operates and saturates, conforming us to Him.

The Word! The Word! Oh, let us on it feed!

Its rich supply He’ll then apply to meet our every need.

1.  Oh, how we love to labor

upon this precious Word,

And laboring together, more light it does afford.

We love its depths to fathom, its mysteries to know,

And in its matchless wisdom to daily grow.

The Word! The Word, with hidden veins of gold!

Our laboring upon it yields a treasury untold.

The Word! The Word! Oh, come explore the mine!

Come let us learn and here discern the mysteries divine.

1.  The Word is for the Body,

’tis corporately we see

The fullness of His riches, His vast economy.

’Tis with the saints we’re viewing

the breadth and length and height.

And with the saints pursuing with corporate might.

The Word! The Word! It’s to the church He speaks.

His Word transforms, His Word adorns the Bride

for whom He seeks.

The Word! The Word unites us to the Lord

Until the Spirit and the Bride say, Come! in one accord.

# 195 8.8.8.8.D.

1 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

It is a rich, good land to us,

Filled with the knowledge excellent

Of Christ, our portion glorious.

Oh, hallelujah for the Word!

No eye has seen, nor ear has heard,

Nor e’er has come up in our hearts

What wondrous grace the Word imparts.

2 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

It is the bountiful supply,

The living Spirit, causing us

Our Christ to live and magnify.

3 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

By it in us God operates

The willing and the working too,

And all our being saturates.

4 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

Our full salvation here is found

From murmurings, reasonings, rivalry,

That we in oneness may abound.

5 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

The living breathing of our God!

Blameless and guileless thru the Word,

We shine as lights for Christ our Lord.

6 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

It constitutes us all with Christ.

Then we express this glorious One

By holding forth the word of life.

7 Oh, how we love the precious Word!

By it we’re gaining Christ each day;

‘Tis by it we in Him are found

And righteousness of faith display.

# 196 8.8.8.8.

1 Oh, how I love this blessed Book!

The story of redeeming grace,

Love letter of my Bridegroom’s heart

And mirror of my Savior’s face.

2 Oh, how I love this blessed Book!

My checkbook on the bank above,

Deed of my heavenly heritage

And dying will of Him I love.

3 Oh, how I love this blessed Book!

Bright telescope through which I view

The wonders of the world to come

And gaze on glories ever new.

4 Oh, how I love this blessed Book!

My Guide Book all my earthly way,

The lamp that cheers my darkest night,

The sunshine of my brightest day.

# 197 6.5.6.5.

1 Speak, Lord, in the stillness,

While I wait on Thee;

Hush’d my heart ot listen,

In expectantancy.

2 Speak, O blessed Master,

In this quiet hour;

Let me see Thy face, Lord,

Feel Thy touch of power.

3 For the words Thou speakest,

They are life indeed;

Living bread from heaven,

Now my spirit feed!

4 All to Thee is yielded,

I am not my own;

Blissful, glad surrender,

I am Thine alone.

5 Speak, Thy servant heareth,

Be not silent, Lord;

Waits my soul upon Thee

For the quickening word.

6 Fill me with the knowledge

Of Thy glorious will;

All Thine own good pleasure

In Thy child fulfill.

7 Like a watered garden,

Full of fragrance rare,

Lingering in Thy presence,

Let my life appear.

# 198 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, hast Thou not one word for me

To bind my soul more close to Thee,

That ev’ry evil I may flee;

One word, O Lord! One word from Thee?

2 One word, to show how weak am I

When in my strength alone I try,

In vain I toil, in vain I sigh;

One word, O Lord! One word from Thee.

3 One word, to show how near Thou art,

For Thou dost dwell within my heart;

And of Thy life I share a part;

One word, O Lord! One word from Thee.

4 One word of power, oh, let me hear,

Above the heart’s most anxious fear,

Thy still, small voice, yet deep and clear;

One word, O Lord! One word from Thee.

5 One word of final triumph, Lord;

Sweet hope Thy promises afford,

To dwell with Thee in sweet accord;

One word, O Lord! One word from Thee.

# 199 8.8.9.8. with chorus

1 Open my eyes that I may see

Glimpses of truth Thou hast for me;

Place in my hands the wonderful key

That shall unclasp and set me free.

Silently now I wait for Thee,

Ready, my God, Thy will to see;

Open my eyes, illumine me,

Spirit Divine!

2 Open my ears that I may hear

Voices of truth Thou sendest clear;

And while the wave notes fall on my ear,

Everything false will disappear.

3 Open my mouth and let me bear

Tidings of mercy everywhere;

Open my hert and let me prepare

Love with Thy children thus to share.

4 Open my mind that I may read

More of Thy love in word and deed;

What shall I fear while yet Thou dost lead?

Only for light from Thee I plead.

# 200 8.7.8.7.7.7.

1 Master, speak! Thy servant heareth,

Waiting for Thy gracious word,

Longing for Thy voice that cheereth,

Master, let it now be heard.

I am list’ning, Lord, for Thee;

What hast Thou to say to me?

2 Often through my heart is pealing

Many another voice than Thine,

Many an unwilled echo stealing

From the walls of this Thy shrine.

Let Thy longed-for accents fall;

Muter, speak! and silence all.

3 Master, speak! though least and lowest,

Let me not unheard depart;

Speak! for oh, Thou knowest

All the yearning of my heart.

Knowest all its truest need;

Speak! and make me blest indeed.

4 Master, speak! and make me ready,

When Thy voice is truly heard,

With obedience glad and steady,

Still to follow every word.

I am listening, Lord, for Thee:

Master, speak, oh, speak to me!

5 Speak to me by name, O Master,

Let me know it is to me;

Speak, that I may follow faster,

With a step more firm and free,

Where the Shepherd leads the flock,

In the shadow of the Rock!

