# 162 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1.  Lord, Thou art our peace off’ring;

We lay our hands on Thee.

We’re one with Thee, Lord Jesus,

In fact and practically.

Here in the tent of meeting

We offer Thee to God

And with the Father feasting

Enjoy Thee as our food.

Christ is our peace! Christ is our peace!

We praise Thee, blessed, Lord!

Our peace with God, our peace with man

Have fully been restored.

2.  O what a peace it gives us

To see the sprinkled blood.

The blood of our peace offering

Has brought us peace with God.

With boldness we’re proclaiming—

Now hear this, enemy—

“Peace by the blood of Jesus!”

This is our victory.

3.  Based on the burnt oblation

And the meal offering too,

We now may offer Jesus

As our peace offering true.

The more we eat and drink Him

In His humanity,

The more we may enjoy Him

While feasting corporately.

4.  Here God enjoys His portion—

’Tis inward, hidden, sweet—

And all the priestly family

May here the wave breast eat.

The offering priest—how precious—

May of the best partake:

He gets the right heave shoulder

And one unleavened cake.

5.  How sweet to eat the wave breast,

The all-embracing love

Of Christ in resurrection!

It sets us all above.

What strength to eat the shoulder

Of the ascended One

And with the cake be nourished

To walk as He has done.

6.  With all the cleansed ones feasting,

How rich the Christ we eat!

Oh, this is true communion,

The only way to meet.

We bring our full thanksgiving

And e’en would make a vow

We’re for the Lord’s great purpose

As He is for us now.

What fellowship, what fellowship

With God and man we share!

O what a joy, O what a feast

With all God’s people here.

