# 194 Irregular Meter

1.  We’ve come to love the Bible,

the precious Word of God;

It fills us with the riches and fullness of the Lord.

The grace it is infusing yields holy energy,

And life to us transfusing, it sets us free.

The Word! The Word! We love the Word of God.

Its life and light is our delight, it fills us with the Lord.

The Word! The Word, the key to all our joy!

Its jewels fine we love to mine, its riches to employ.

2.  The Bible every morning

is our supreme delight,

And ere the day is dawning, we’re here receiving light.

It ever is revealing a Christ for us to live,

And fresh supply unsealing, the power does give.

The Word! The Word! We love to take it in.

It operates and saturates, conforming us to Him.

The Word! The Word! Oh, let us on it feed!

Its rich supply He’ll then apply to meet our every need.

3.  Oh, how we love to labor

upon this precious Word,

And laboring together, more light it does afford.

We love its depths to fathom, its mysteries to know,

And in its matchless wisdom to daily grow.

The Word! The Word, with hidden veins of gold!

Our laboring upon it yields a treasury untold.

The Word! The Word! Oh, come explore the mine!

Come let us learn and here discern the mysteries divine.

4.  The Word is for the Body,

’tis corporately we see

The fullness of His riches, His vast economy.

’Tis with the saints we’re viewing

the breadth and length and height.

And with the saints pursuing with corporate might.

The Word! The Word! It’s to the church He speaks.

His Word transforms, His Word adorns the Bride

for whom He seeks.

The Word! The Word unites us to the Lord

Until the Spirit and the Bride say, Come! in one accord.

