# 246 8.8.8.8.

1.  In Revelation two and three,

The seven local churches see:

The lessons there for you and me

Are for the Lord’s recovery.

2.  The words to them are words to us,

So that the church be glorious,

And all their warnings we must heed

So that the Lord can meet His need.

3.  To Ephesus, the word is clear:

“To your first love you’re not so near;

You’ve left to work so far away;

Repent, return to Him today.”

4.  Thus, we must all turn back to Him,

Leave other loves, for these are sin.

Oh, let us hearken to His call—

If we miss this, we’ve missed it all!

5.  Then unto Smyrna, suffering, sore—

“You have been tried, but something more—

Be faithful unto death,” we’re told

(Not just of body but of soul).

6.  Be faithful ‘til what’s natural dies;

Your circumstances don’t despise;

The Lord has sent them all to you

To prove that your first love is true.

7.  From Pergamos we clearly see

The world has wed Christianity!

And faithful Antipas did fall—

He dared to stand against it all.

8.  To wed the world we all must fear:

His spoken word will save us here—

If to His speaking we give heed,

We’ll separated be indeed.

9.  Then Thyatira comes at length:

Her mixture with the world her strength.

Fine flour leavened by the yeast,

A harlot riding on a beast.

10.  Lord, we are mixed but hardly know;

To us this mixture fully show.

Each added thing we will refute

Until we’re wholly absolute.

11.  And then from Sardis, we can know

Life is the way that we must go!

She says she’s living, but she’s dead;

She needs to touch the Lord instead.

12.  Lord, take us all the way to life

To overcome the deadness rife.

Away from deadness we would flee

That full of life we’ll always be.

13.  Now Philadelphia comes at last;

That which she has she should hold fast—

The brothers’ love, the name, the word;

This church has satisfied the Lord.

14.  We as the brothers all are one;

We’re one by life, and life alone.

If we His word and name do keep

A glorious building God will reap.

15.  Laodicea warns us all:

From Philadelphia some will fall.

By saying, “I am rich,” it’s then

The Lord is outside wanting in.

16.  Lukewarmness we must ever spurn

And in the spirit always bum,

The inward life experience gain,

And pay the price with Him to reign.

17.  Lord, shine Your light on us today

That we may fully go Your way;

Anoint our eyes and let us see

So You can have recovery.

