# 251 8.8.8.8.

1 Is it Thy will that I should be

Buried, in symbol, Lord, with Thee;

Owning Thee by this solemn sign,

Telling the world that I am Thine?

2 Gladly I yield obedience now;

In all things to Thy will I’d bow;

I’ll follow where my Savior led,

And humbly in His footsteps tread.

3 This emblematic, watery grave

Shows forth His love—who came to save;

And as I enter it, I see

The price my Savior paid for me.

4 Forth from Thy burial, Lord, I come,

For Thou hast triumphed o’er the tomb;

Thy resurrection life I share—

My portion is no longer here.

5 Oh, may I count myself to be

Dead to the sins that wounded Thee,

Dead to the pleasures of this earth,

Unworthy of my heav’nly birth.

6 Lord Jesus, when I gaze on Thee,

And all Thy radiant glory see,

That joy will far exceed the shame

I bear on earth for Thy loved name.

# 252 12.11.12.12

1 We gather together to eat the Lord’s supper:

By eating and drinking, our oneness we show.

His presence possessing, our oneness confessing,

‘Tis thus we eat and drink, and His blessing we know.

2 We’re eating the bread of His body once broken

As now we’re enjoying His Body made one:

One loaf on the table-one Body, we’re able

To testify to all that the Lord’s made us one.

3 We also are drinking the cup of His blessing,

The church’s true fellowship of the Lord’s blood;

Redeemed by believing, all saints we’re receiving,

All those who through redemption have come unto God.

4 Oh, what can we say now except “Hallelujah!”

For such a reality given to us.

Thy blood we’re employing, Thy Body enjoying;

Thus Thou wilt have the church for Thyself glorious.

# 253 9.8.8.9. with chorus

1 Oh, how glorious is Thy table, Lord,

Thou, the man, our Host, presiding,

In Thy house, Thy home, abiding;

Oh, how glorious is Thy table, Lord!

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

Hallelujah for this feast!

Hallelujah, Hallelujah!

Oh, how glorious is Thy table, Lord!

2 How enjoyable Thy table, Lord!

As we fellowship around it,

Hallelujah, we have found it,

How enjoyable Thy table, Lord!

3 Oh, how precious is Thy table, Lord—

Bread and wine Thy death announcing;

Here our soul-life we’re renouncing,

By partaking of Thy table, Lord.

4 How significant Thy table, Lord—

We Thy Body in the loaf seen,

Object of Thy love bespeaking;

How significant Thy table, Lord!

5 How refreshing is Thy table, Lord—

So completely satisfying,

Day by day our need supplying;

How refreshing is Thy table, Lord.

6 How encouraging Thy table, Lord

“Till He come,” its promise giving

Hope, to fill our daily living;

How encouraging Thy table, Lord!

# 254 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 We’re gathered here, O Lord, as Thy one Body:

Though we be many, yet we all are one.

We share Thy life and own that we are members,

And thus within, in life we all are one.

There is one Body in this universe,

And we express it here on earth;

We stand as one in each locality

For all to see, for all to see.

2 There is one loaf, the symbol of Thy body:

‘Twas broken so that all the saints may share:

We eat this bread and, as we are partaking,

Our actual oness with all saints declare.

3 One bread, one cup are now upon the table,

Showing that we can be naught else but one.

Christ has redeemed us, made us His own Body:

What can we say but, “Amen, Lord, we’re one!”

4 We stand as one, and cannot be divided,

Because our oneness is of Christ alone.

We eat as one: one loaf, one cup partaking,

And thus our oneness visibly is shown.

5 Oh, what a joy to have this blessed oneness!

We sense that Thou, O Lord, art satisfied;

And we too share this blissful satisfaction

Sweet foretaste of the Bridegroom with His Bride.

# 255 8.6.8.6.

1 According to Thy gracious word,

In meek humility,

This will I do, my dying Lord,

I will remember Thee.

2 Thy body, broken for my sake,

My bread from heaven shall be;

Thy testamental cup I take,

And thus remember Thee.

3 Gethsemane can I forget?

Or there Thy conflict see,

Thine agony and bloody sweat,

And not remember Thee?

4 When to the cross I turn mine eyes

And rest on Calvary,

O Lamb of God, my sacrifice,

I must remember Thee—

5 Remember Thee and all Thy pains

And all Thy love to me;

Yea, while a breath, a pulse remains,

I will remember Thee.

6 And when these failing lips grow dumb

And mind and memory flee,

When Thou shalt in Thy kingdom come,

Jesus, remember me.

# 256 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Jesus spreads His banner o’er us,

Cheers our famished souls with food;

He the banquet spread before us,

Of His mystic flesh and blood.

Precious banquet, bread of heaven,

Wine of gladness, flowing free;

May we taste it, kindly given,

In remembrance Lord, of Thee.

2 In Thy holy incarnation,

When the angels sang Thy birth;

In Thy fasting and temptation,

In Thy labors on the earth,

In Thy trial and rejection,

In Thy suff’rings on the tree,

In Thy glorious resurrection,

May we, Lord, remember Thee.

3 In Thy wondrous crucifixion

Shunned by God, condemned by man.

Thou didst purchase our redemption,

Bridge in love the dreadful span.

Now to heav’n Thou hast ascended.

There for us to intercede;

Coming soon in glory splendid—

Blest remembrance, Lord, of Thee.

# 257 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Jesus, Lord, we know Thee present

At Thy table freshly spread,

Seated at Thy priceless banquet

With Thy banner overhead.

Precious moments at Thy table,

From all fear and doubt set free;

Here to rest, so sweetly able,

Occupied alone with Thee.

2 Here rejoicing in Thy nearness,

Gladly by Thy Spirit led;

Calmly in the blest remembrance

Of Thyself, Thy blood once shed.

Lord, we take each simple token

In fond memory of Thee,

Muse upon Thy body broken

And Thy blood shed on the tree.

3 Oh, what joy it is to see Thee,

In these chosen emblems here;

In the bread and wine of blessing—

Bread to strengthen, wine to cheer!

Lord, behold us met together,

One in Thee, our risen Head,

Thus we take the cup of blessing,

Thus we share the broken bread.

4 Lord, we know how true Thy promise

To be with us where we meet,

When in Thy loved name we gather

To enjoy communion sweet;

Dearer still that looked-for promise

To each waiting, yearning heart,

That with Thee we soon shall be, Lord,

Yes, “forever” where Thou art.

# 258 7.6.7.6.D.

1 On that same night, Lord Jesus,

When all around Thee joined

To cast its darkest shadow

Across Thy holy mind,

We hear Thy voice, blest Savior,

“This do, remember me”,

With grateful hearts responding,

We do remember Thee.

2 The depth of all Thy suffering

No heart could e’er conceive,

The cup of wrath overflowing

For us Thou didst receive;

And, oh, of God forsaken

On the accursed tree;

With grateful hearts, Lord Jesus,

We now remember Thee.

3 We think of all the darkness

Which round Thy spirit pressed,

Of all those waves and billows,

Which rolled across Thy breast.

Oh, there Thy grace unbounded

And perfect love we see;

With joy and sorrow mingling,

We would remember Thee.

4 We know Thee now as risen,

The Firstborn from the dead;

We see Thee now ascended,

The Church’s glorious Head.

In Thee by grace accepted,

The heart and mind set free

To think of all Thy sorrow,

And thus remember Thee.

5 Till Thou shalt come in glory,

And call us hence away,

To rest in all the brightness

Of that unclouded day,

We show Thy death, Lord Jesus,

And here would seek to be

More to Thy death conformed,

While we remember Thee.

# 259 6.6.8.6.

1 Sweet feast of love divine!

‘Tis grace that makes us free

To feed upon this bread and wine,

In mem’ry, Lord, of Thee.

2 Here every welcome guest

Waits, Lord, from Thee to learn

The secrets of Thy Father’s breast,

And all Thy grace discern.

3 Here conscience ends its strife,

And faith delights to prove

The sweetness of the Bread of Life,

The fullness of Thy love.

4 That blood that flowed for sin

In symbol here we see,

And feel the blessed pledge within

That we are loved of Thee.

5 O if this glimpse of love

Is so divinely sweet,

What will it be, O Lord, above,

Thy gladdening smile to meet!

6 To see Thee face to face,

Thy perfect likeness wear,

And all Thy ways of wondrous grace

Through endless years declare.

# 260 10.10.10.10.

1 Here, O my Lord, I see Thee face to face;

Here faith can touch and handle things unseen;

Here would I grasp with firmer hand Thy grace,

And all my weariness upon Thee lean.

2 Here would I feed upon the Bread of God;

Here drink with Thee the royal wine of heav’n;

Here would I lay aside each earthly load;

Here taste afresh the calm of sin forgiv’n.

3 I have no help but Thine; nor do I need

Another arm save Thine to lean upon;

It is enough, my Lord, enough indeed;

My strength is in Thy might, Thy might alone.

4 This is the hour of banquet and of song;

This is the heav’nly table spread for me;

Here let me feast, and, feasting, still prolong

The brief bright hour of fellowship with Thee.

5 Too soon we rise; the symbols disappear;

The feast, though not the love, is past and gone;

The bread and wine remove, but Thou art here,

Nearer than ever still our Shield and Sun.

6 Feast after feast thus comes and passes by,

Yet passing, points to the glad feast above,

Giving sweet foretastes of the festal joy,

The Lamb’s great bridal-feast of bliss and love.

# 261 7.7.7.6.

1 For the bread and for the wine,

For the pledge that seals Him mine,

For the words of love divine,

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

2 Only bread and only wine,

Yet to faith, the solemn sign

Of the heav’nly and divine!

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

3 For the words that turn our eye

To the cross of Calvary,

Bidding us in faith draw nigh,

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

4.  For the words that fragrance breathe

These plain symbols underneath,

Words that His own peace bequeath,

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

5 For Thy words in Spirit shown,

For Thy will to us made known.

“Do ye this until I come,”

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

6 Till He come we take the bread,

Type of Him on whom we feed,

Him who liveth and was dead!

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

7 Till He come we take the cup;

As we at His table sup,

Eye and heart are lifted up!

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

8 For that coming, here foreshown,

For that day to man unknown,

For the glory and the throne,

We give Thee thanks, O Lord.

# 262 7.8.7.8. with chorus

1 From heav’n You came, helpless babe,

Enter’d our world, Your glory veil’d:

Not to be served but to serve,

And give Your life that we might live.

This is our God, the Servant King,

He calls us now to follow Him,

To bring our lives as a daily offering

Of worship to the Servant king.

2 There in the garden of tears,

My heavy load He chose to bear;

His heart with sorrow was torn,

Yet not my will but Yours,’ He said.

3 Come see His hands and His feet,

The scars that speak of sacrifice,

Hands that flung stars into space

To cruel nails surrendered.

4 So let us learn how to serve,

And in our lives enthrone Him;

Each other’s needs to prefer,

For it is Christ we’re serving.

# 263 9.9.10.10.7.

Make me a servant, humble and meek,

Lord, let me lift up those who are weak.

And may the prayer of my heart always be:

Make me a servant, make me a servant,

Make me a servant today.

# 264 8.8.8.8.D.

1 We have a most glorious King;

The heavens, He says, are His throne;

All worlds are His mighty domain,

All kingdoms His scepter shall own.

He dwells with His people below,

He loves in their trials to share;

We dwell with the King I His work,

His burden we willingly bear.

2 I’m dwelling with Jesus my King;

I’ve found where He dwells with His own;

I’ve opened the door of my heart;

He’s made it His temple and throne.

Like Mary I sit at His feet,

Like John I recline on His breast;

His presence is fullness of joy,

His bosom is infinite rest.

3 I dwell with the King for His work,

I’ve part in His glorious plan

To bring in His kingdom to earth

And tell His salvation to man.

The world has its work and rewards,

I count them but folly and loss;

My business is only His work,

My message is only His cross.

4 I dwell with the King for His work,

The work, it is His and not mine;

He plans and prepares it for me

And fills me with power divine.

So duty is changed to delight,

And prayer into praise as I sing;

I dwell with my King for His work

And work in the strength of my King.

5 We’ll dwell with the King for His work

And work thru each day of the year.

Perhaps ere it passes, the King

In glory Himself shall appear.

Oh, then in some closer embrace,

Oh, then in some nobler employ

We’ll dwell with the King for His work

In endless, ineffable joy!

# 265 8.8.8.8.

1 O Master, let me walk with Thee

In lowly paths of service free;

Tell me Thy secret, help me bear

The strain of toil, the fret of care.

2 Help me the slow of heart to move

By some clear, winning word of love;

Teach me the wayward feet to stay,

And guide them in the homeward way.

3 Teach me Thy patience; still with Thee

In closer, dearer company,

In work that keeps faith sweet and strong,

In trust that triumphs over wrong.

4 In hope that sends a shining ray

Far down the future’s broadening way,

In peace that only Thou canst give,

With Thee, O Master, let me live.

# 266 10.8.10.8.8.8.10.8.

If you want to be great in God’s kingdom,

Learn to be the servant of all.

If you want to be great in God’s kingdom,

Learn to be the servant of all.

Learn to be the servant of all.

Learn to be the servant of all.

If you want to be great in God’s kingdom,

Learn to be the servant of all.

# 267 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, speak to me, that I may speak

In living echoes of Thy tone;

As Thou hast sought, so let me seek

Thy erring children lost and lone.

2 O lead me, Lord, that I may lead

The wandering and the wavering feet;

O feed me, Lord, that I may feed

Thy hungering ones with manna sweet.

3 O strengthen me, that while I stand

Firm on the rock, and strong in Thee,

I may stretch out a loving hand

To wrestlers with the troubled sea.

4 O teach me, Lord, that I may teach

The precious things Thou dost impart;

And wing my words, that they may reach

The hidden depths of many a heart.

5 O give Thine own sweet rest to me,

That I may speak with soothing power

A word in season, as from Thee

To weary ones in needful hour.

6 O fill me with Thy fullness, Lord,

Until my very heart o’erflow

In kindling thought and glowing word,

Thy love to tell, Thy praise to show.

7 O use me, Lord, use even me,

Just as Thou wilt, and when, and where,

Until Thy blessed face I see,

Thy rest, Thy joy, Thy glory share!

# 268 6.6.6.6.D.

1 Shine Thou upon us, Lord,

True Light of men, today,

And through the written Word

Thy very self display;

That so from hearts which burn

With gazing on Thy face,

Thy little ones may learn

The wonders of Thy grace.

2 Breathe Thou upon us, Lord,

Thy Spirit’s living flame,

That so with one accord

Our lips may tell Thy name;

Give Thou the hearing ear,

Fix Thou the wandering thought,

That those we teach may hear

The great things Thou hast wrought.

3 Speak Thou for us, O Lord,

In all we say of Thee;

According to Thy Word

Let all our teaching be;

That so Thy lambs may know

Their own true Shepherd’s voice,

Where’er He leads them go,

And in His love rejoice.

4 Live Thou within us, Lord;

Thy mind and will be ours;

Be Thou beloved, adored,

And served with all our powers;

That so our lives may teach

Thy children what Thou art,

And plead, by more than speech,

For Thee with every heart.

# 269 8.7.8.7.D.

1 How I praise Thee, precious Savior,

That Thy love laid hold of me;

Thou hast saved and cleansed and filled me,

That I might Thy channel be.

Channels only, blessed Master,

But with all Thy wondrous pow’r

Flowing through us, Thou canst use us

Ev’ry day and ev’ry hour.

2 Just a channel, full of blessing,

To the thirsty hearts around;

To tell out Thy full salvation,

All Thy loving message sound.

3 Emptied that Thou shouldest fill me,

I A clean vessel in Thine hand;

With no strength but as Thou givest

Graciously with each command.

4 Witnessing Thy grace to save me,

Setting free from self and sin;

Thou hast bought me to possess me,

In Thy fullness, Lord, come in.

5 Jesus, fill now with Thy Spirit,

Hearts that full surrender know;

That the streams of living water

From our inner man may flow.

# 270 11.10.11.10.

1 Flow through me, Lord, a weak and earthly vessel,

Cleansed by Thy blood, and quickened at Thy call.

Flow through me, Lord, all utterly abandoned,

To Thy dear service, great, or high, or small.

2 Flow through me, Lord, with overflowing fullness,

Make me to know Thine own deep love for souls.

Work in me, Lord, the faith that moveth mountains,

As power, Almighty power, my being holds.

3 Flow through me, Lord, till sin in all its blackness

To captives bound by Satan is revealed.

Flow through me, Lord, till hearts are stricken, broken,

And in Thy cleansing fountain saved and healed.

4 Flow through me, Lord, till lagging souls are quickened,

Till lives of failure sing the victory song,

Till praise from lips long dumb and silent, open,

And join with rapture earth’s glad, cleansed throng.

5 Flow through me, Lord, till waters from Thy fountain

Shall slake the thirst of souls in deserts drear.

Flow through me, Lord, till and places blossom

With roses fresh and sweet, and wondrous fair.

6 Flow through me, Lord, set all my heart-strings thrilling,

With Thine own love, so matchless, perfect, free.

Flow through me, Lord, till naught in earth or heaven,

Can satisfy my being, Lord, but Thee.

# 271 7.7.7.7.

1 In the wilderness for God!

Just a common bush a flame!

Thus may I be, blessed Lord,

For the glory of Thy Name.

2 Just a common bush to be,

Something in which God can dwell,

Something thru which God can speak,

Something thru which God can tell,

3 All His yearning over men,

All His purposes of love,

Flaming with no light of earth,

But with glory from above:

4 God Himself within the bush,

Nothing seen but just the flame;

Make me that, just that, O God,

For the glory of Thy Name.

# 272 7.6.7.6.D.

1 Work, for the Day is coming,

Day in the Word foretold,

When, ‘mid the scenes triumphant,

Long’d for by saints of old,

He, who on earth a stranger

Travers’d its paths of pain,

Jesus, the Prince, the Savior,

Comes evermore to reign.

2 Work, for the Day is coming,

Darkness will soon be gone;

Then o’er the night of weeping

Day without end shall dawn,

What now we sow in sadness

Then we shall reap in joy;

Hope will be chang’d to gladness,

Praise be our blest employ.

3 Work for the Day is coming,

Made for the saints of light;

Off with the garments dreary,

On with the armor bright:

Soon will the strife be ended,

Soon all our toils below:

Not to the dark we’re tending,

But to the Day we go.

4 Work, for the Lord is coming,

Children of light are we:

From Jesus’ bright appearing,

Powers of darkness flee.

Out of the mist, at His bidding.

Souls like the dew are born:

O’er all the East are spreading

Tints of the rosy morn.

5 Work, then, the Day is coming,

No time for sighing now;

Prize for the race awaits thee,

Wreaths for the victor’s brow.

Now morning Light is breaking,

Soon will the Day appear;

Night shades appall no longer,

Jesus, our Lord, is near.

# 273 8.8.8.8.

1 Go labor on; spend, and be spent;

Thy joy to do the Father’s will;

It is the way the Master went;

Should not the servant tread it still?

2 Go, labor on: ’tis not for nought;

Thy earthly loss is heav’nly gain;

Men heed thee, love thee, praise thee not;

The Master praises, what are men?

3 Go, labor on; your hands are weak,

Your knees are faint, your souls cast down;

Yet falter not; the prize you seek

Is near, a kingdom and a crown.

4 Go, labor on while it is day,

The world’s dark night is hastening on;

Speed, speed thy work, cast sloth away,

It is not thus that souls are won.

5 Men die in darkness at your side,

Without a hope to cheer the tomb;

Take up the torch and wave it wide,

The torch that lights time’s thickest gloom.

6 Press on, faint not, keep watch and pray;

Be wise the erring soul to win;

Go forth into the world’s highway,

Compel the wanderer to come in.

7 Press on, and in thy work rejoice;

For work comes rest, the prize thus won;

Soon shalt thou hear the Master’s voice,

The midnight cry, Behold, I come!

# 274 Irregular Meter

1 Come let us anew

Our journey pursue,

Roll round with the year,

And never stand still till the Master appear.

His adorable will let us gladly fulfill,

And our talents improve,

By the patience of hope, and the labor of love,

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 Our life is a dream,

Our time as a stream

Glides swiftly away,

And the fugitive moment refuses to stay,

The Arrow is flown,

The moment is gone,

The millennial year

Rushes on to our view, and Etemity’s here!

3 O that each in the day

Of His coming might say

“I have fought my way thro’,

I have finish’d the work Thou didst give me to do!”

O that each from his Lord

May receive the glad word,

“Well and faithfully done,

Enter into My joy, and sit down on My throne!

# 275 7.7.7.7.

1 Not where we elect to go,

But where Jesus leads the way,

There the living waters flow,

There our darkness turns to day.

2 Not our self-appointed task

Will the Lord’s approval win,

But the work we did not ask,

Finished humbly, just for Him.

3 Not the prayer we long to plead

When we bend before the Throne,

But the touching deeper need

Of the Spirit’s wordless groan.

4 Not the gift we proudly lay

On His altar will He heed,

If our hearts have said Him, “Nay,”

When He whispered, “I have need.”

5 Thus we die, and dying live

In the heavenlies with the Lord;

Thus we serve, and pray, and give,

Christ Himself our great Reward.

# 276 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 There shall be showers of blessing:

This is the promise of love;

There shall be seasons refreshing,

Sent from the Savior above.

Showers of blessing,

Showers of blessing we need;

Mercy-drops round us are falling,

But for the showers we plead.

2 There shall be showers of blessing

Precious reviving again;

Over the hills and the valleys,

Sound of abundance of rain.

3 There shall be showers of blessing;

Send them upon us, O Lord!

Grant to us now a refreshing;

Come, and now honor Thy Word.

4 There shall be showers of blessing:

O that today they might fall,

Now as to God we’re confessing.

Now as on Jesus we call!

5 There shall be showers of blessing.

If we but trust and obey;

There shall be seasons refreshing

If we let God have His way.

# 277 11.10.11.10.

1 O perfect Love, all human thought transcending,

Lowly we kneel in prayer before Thy throne,

That theirs may be the love which knows no ending,

Whom Thou forevermore dost join in one.

2 O perfect Life, be Thou their full assurance

Of tender charity and steadfast faith,

Of patient hope, and quiet, brave endurance,

With childlike trust that fears nor pain nor death.

3 Grant them the joy which brightens earthly sorrow,

Grant them the peace which calms all earthly strife,

And to life’s day the glorious, unknown morrow

That dawns upon eternal love and life.

# 278 8.8.8.6.

1 O God of love to Thee we bow,

And pray for these before Thee now.

That, closely knit in holy vow,

They may in Thee be one.

2 When days are filled with pure delight,

When paths are plain and skies are bright,

Walking by faith and not by sight,

May they in Thee be one.

3 When stormy winds fulfill Thy will,

And all their good seems turned to ill,

Then, trusting Thee completely, still

May they in Thee be one.

4 Whate’er in life shall be their share

Of quick’ning joy or burd’ning care,

In pow’r to do and grace to bear,

May they in Thee be one.

5 Eternal Love, with them abide;

In Thee forever may they hide,

For even death cannot divide

Those whom Thou makest one.

# 279 10.6.10.6. with chorus

1 She only touch’d the hem of His garment

As to His side she stole,

Amid the crowd that gather’d around Him;

And straightway she was whole.

Oh, touch the hem of His garment,

And thou, too, shalt be free!

His healing pow’r this very hour

Shall give new life to thee!

2 She came in fear and trembling before Him,

She knew her Lord had come,

She felt that from Him virtue had healed her,

The mighty deed was done.

3 He turned with “Daughter, be of good comfort,

Thy faith hath made thee whole”;

And peace that passeth all understanding

With gladness filled her soul.

# 280 8.8.8.8.D.

1 He healeth me, oh, bless His name!

I want to spread abroad His fame;

From dread disease He sets me free,

The Lord my healer, strong is He!

He healeth me, He healeth me!

By power divine He healeth me;

He healed the sick in Galilee,

And now by faith He healeth me!

2 He healeth me! my simple faith

Believes the word that Jesus saith,

And takes the place of ardent hope,

Believes the Lord will raise me up.

3 He healeth me! I touch for cure

The border of His garment pure,

And virtue through my being flows,

A healing balm for nature’s woes.

4 He healeth me, as when of yore,

Their sins and sicknesses He bore:

Nor has He lost His power and skill

Our blessed Christ is living still.

5 He healeth me! how oft I sought

This healing power, but found it not:

But now I trust with all my soul,

And now thro’ faith He makes me whole.

# 281 8.7.8.7.D.

1 I’ve found a Friend, oh, such a Friend!

He loved me ere I knew Him;

He drew me with the cords of love,

And thus He bound me to Him.

And round my heart still closely twine

Those ties which naught can sever,

For I am His, and He is mine,

Forever and forever.

2 I’ve found a Friend, oh, such a Friend!

He bled, He died to save me;

And not alone the gift of life,

But His own self He gave me.

Naught that I have my own I call,

I hold it for the Giver;

My heart, my strength, my life, my all,

Are His, and His forever.

3 I’ve found a Friend, oh, such a Friend!

So kind, and true, and tender,

So wise a Counsellor and Guide,

So mighty a Defender!

From Him who loves me now so well,

What power my soul can sever?

Shall life or death, or earth or hell?

No, I am His forever.

# 282 7.7.7.7.D.

1 Loved with everlasting love,

Led by grace that love to know;

Spirit, breathing from above,

Thou hast taught me it is so.

Oh, this full and perfect peace!

Oh, this transport all divine!

In a love which cannot cease,

I am His, and He is mine.

(Repeat the last 2 lines of each stanza)

2 Heaven above is softer blue,

Earth around is sweeter green;

Something lives in every hue

Christless eyes have never seen:

Birds with gladder songs o’erflow,

Flow’rs with deeper beauties shine,

Since I know, as now I know,

I am His, and He is mine.

3 Things that once were wild alarms

Cannot now disturb my rest;

Closed in everlasting arms,

Pillowed on the loving breast.

Oh, to lie forever here,

Doubt and care and self resign,

While He whispers in my ear.

I am His, and He is mine.

4 His forever, only His:

Who the Lord and me shall part?

Ah, with what a rest of bliss

Christ can fill the loving heart.

Heaven and earth may fade and flee,

Firstborn light in gloom decline;

But, while God and I shall be,

I am His, and He is mine.

# 283 6.6.9.6.

1 Come and rejoice with me!

For once my heart was poor,

And I have found a treasury

Of love, a boundless store.

2 Come and rejoice with me!

I, once so sick at heart,

Have met with One who knows my case,

And knows the healing art.

3 Come and rejoice with me!

For I was wearied sore,

And I have found a mighty arm

Which holds me evermore.

4 Come and rejoice with me!

My feet so wide did roam,

One has brought me from afar,

To find in Him my home.

5 Come and rejoice with me!

For I have found a Friend

Who knows my heart’s most secret depths,

Yet loves me without end.

6 I knew not of His love;

And He had loved so long,

With love so faithful and so deep,

So tender and so strong.

7 And now I know it all,

Have heard and known His voice,

And hear it still from day to day.

Can I enough rejoice?

# 284 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 Of Jesus’ love that sought me,

When I was lost in sin;

Of wondrous grace that brought me

Back to His fold again;

Of heights and depths of mercy,

Far deeper than the sea,

And higher than the heavens,

My theme shall ever be.

Sweeter as the years go by,

Sweeter as the years go by;

Richer, fuller, deeper,

Jesus’ love is sweeter,

Sweeter as the years go by.

2 He trod in old Judea

Life’s pathway long ago;

The people thronged about Him,

His saving grace to know.

He healed the broken-hearted,

And caused the blind to see;

And still His great heart yearneth

In love for even me.

3 ’Twas wondrous love which led Him

For us to suffer loss—

To bear without a murmur

The anguish of the cross.

With saints redeemed in glory,

Let us our voices raise,

Till heav’n and earth re-echo

With our Redeemer’s praise.

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

# 285 10. 10. 9. 6. with chorus

1 Jesus my Lord will love me forever,

From Him no pow’r of evil can sever,

He gave His life to ransom my soul,

Now I belong to Him.

Now I be long to Jesus,

Jesus be longs to me,

Not for the years of time alone,

But for eternity

2 Once I was lost in sin’s degradation,

Jesus came down to bring me salvation,

Lifted me up from sorrow and shame,

Now I belong to Him.

3 Joy floods my soul for Jesus has saved me,

Freed me from sin that long had enslaved me,

His precious blood He gave to redeem,

Now I belong to Him.

# 286 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 I am amazed that God could ever love me,

So full of sin, so covered o’er with shame;

Make me to walk with Him who is above me,

Cleansed by the pow’r of His redeeming name.

I am amazed that God would ever save me,

Naught but the cross could take away my sin;

Thro’ faith in Christ eternal life He gave me,

Now He abides forevermore within.

2 I am amazed that God would deign to bless me,

Choose me an heir to riches of His grace;

Till that perfection shall at last possess me,

He has reserved for all who seek His face.

3 I am amazed that God should grant salvation,

To such as I and all who heed His word;

Eternal life to ev’ry land and nation,

This is the wondrous message we have heard.

# 287 10.10.10.10. with chorus

1 I am so glad that our Father in heav’n

Tells of His love in the Book He has giv’n;

Wonderful things in the Bible I see:

This is the dearest, that Jesus loves me.

I am so glad that Jesus loves me,

Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me;

I am so glad that Jesus loves me,

Jesus loves even me.

2 Though I forget Him and wander away,

Still He doth love me wherever I stray;

Back to His dear loving arms would I flee,

When I remember that Jesus loves me.

3 Oh, if there’s only one song I can sing,

When in His beauty I see the great King,

This shall my song in eternity be:

“Oh, what a wonder that Jesus loves me.”

# 288 12.11.12.11. with chorus

1 I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus

Since I found in Him a friend so strong and true;

I would tell you how He chang’d my life completely—

He did something that no other friend could do.

No one ever cared for me like Jesus,

There’s no other friend so kind as He;

No one else could take the sin and darkness from me—

O how much He cared for me!

2 All my life was full of sin when Jesus found me,

All my heart was full of misery and woe;

Jesus placed His strong and loving arms around me,

And He led me in the way I ought to go.

3 Ev’ry day He comes to me with new assurance,

More and more I understand His words of love;

But I’ll never know just why He came to save me,

Till some day I see His blessed face above.

# 289 8.8.8.8.

1 Cleansed in our Savior’s precious Blood,

Filled with the fullness of our God,

Walking by faith the path He trod,

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

2 Leaning our heads on Jesus’ breast,

Knowing the joy of that sweet rest,

Finding in Him the chief, the best,

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

3 Kept by His pow’r from day to day,

Held by His hand, we cannot stray,

Glory to glory all the way,

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

4 Living in us His own pure life,

Giving us rest from inward strife,

From strength to strength, from death to life,

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

5 O what a Savior we have found;

Well may we make the world resound

With one continual joyous sound,

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

# 290 8.8.8.8.8.8. with repeat

1 And can it be that I should gain

An int’rest in the Savior’s blood?

Died He for me, who caused His pain?

For me, who Him to death pursued?

Amazing love! How can it be

That Thou, my God, shouldst die for me?

(Repeat the last 2 lines of each stanza)

2 ‘Tis mystery all! The immortal dies!

Who can explore His strange design?

In vain the firstborn seraph tries

To sound the depths of love Divine!

‘Tis mercy all! let earth adore,

Let angel minds inquire no more.

3 He left His Father’s throne above,

So free, so infinite His grace;

Emptied Himself of all but love,

And bled for Adam’s helpless race:

‘Tis mercy all, immense and free;

For, O my God, it found out me.

4 Long my imprisoned spirit lay

Fast bound in sin and nature’s night;

Thine eye diffused a quickening ray,

I woke, the dungeon flamed with light;

My chains fell off, my heart was free,

I rose, went forth, and followed Thee.

5 No condemnation now I dread;

Jesus, and all in Him, is mine!

Alive in Him, my living Head,

And clothed in righteousness Divine,

Bold I approach the eternal throne,

And claim the crown, through Christ my own.

# 291 8.7.8.7.

1 On the Lamb our souls are resting,

What His love no tongue can say,

All our sins, so great, so many,

In His blood are washed away.

2 Sweetest rest and peace have filled us,

Sweeter praise than tongue can tell;

God is satisfied with Jesus,

We are satisfied as well.

3 Conscience now no more condemns us,

For His own most precious blood

Once for all has washed and cleansed us,

Cleansed us in the eyes of God.

4 Filled with this sweet peace forever,

On we go, through strife and care,

Till we find that peace around us

In the Lamb’s high glory there.

# 292 8.7.8.7. D.

1 Precious Savior, Thou hast saved me;

Thine, and only Thine, I am:

Oh, the cleansing blood has reached me!

Glory, glory to the Lamb!

Glory, glory, hallelujah!

Glory, glory to the Lamb!

Oh, the cleansing blood has reached me!

Glory, glory to the Lamb!

2 Long my yearning heart was striving

To obtain this precious rest;

But, when all my struggles ended,

Simply trusting, I was blessed.

3 Trusting, trusting every moment;

Feeling now the blood applied;

Lying in the cleansing fountain,

Dwelling in my Savior’s side.

4 Consecrated to Thy service,

I will live and die to Thee;

I will witness to Thy glory,

Of salvation, full and free.

5 Yes, I will stand up for Jesus,

He has sweetly saved my soul,

Cleansed my soul from sin’s corruption,

Sanctified, and made me whole.

6 Glory to the Lord who bought me,

Glory for His saving power;

Glory to the Lord who keeps me,

Glory, glory evermore!

# 293 10. 10. 10. 12. with chorus

1 Gone from my heart the world and all its charms;

Now through the blood I’m saved from all alarms;

Down at the cross my heart is bend-ing low;

The precious blood of Jesus cleanses white as snow.

I love Him, I love Him,

Because He first loved me,

And purchased my salvation on Calvary’s tree.

2 Once I was lost, and fallen deep in sin;

Once was a slave to passions fierce within;

Once was afraid to meet an angry God,

But now I’m cleansed from every stain thro’ Jesus’ blood.

3 Once I was bound, but now I am set free;

Once I was blind, but now the light I see;

Once I was dead, but now in Christ I live,

To tell the world around the peace that He doth give.

# 294 8.8.8.8.

1 Jesus,Thy blood and righteousness.

My beauty are, my glorious dress;

Midst flaming worlds, in these arrayed,

With joy shall I lift up my head.

2 Lord, I believe Thy precious blood,

Which, at the mercy seat of God,

Forever doth for sinners plead,

For me, e’en for my soul, was shed.

3 Lord, I believe were sinners more

Than sands upon the ocean shore,

Thou hast for all a ransom paid,

For all a full redemption made.

4 Bold shall I stand in that great day,

For who aught to my charge shall lay?

Fully, by Thee, absolved I am

From sin and fear, from guilt and shame.

5 This spotless robe the same appears,

When ruined nature sinks in years;

No age can change its glorious hue,

Its glory is forever new.

6 Thou God of power, Thou God of love,

Let many more, Thy mercy prove;

Their beauty this, their glorious dress,

Jesus the Lord, our Righteousness.

# 295 8.8.8.8. with chorus

1 My hope is built on nothing less

Than Jesus’ blood and righteousness;

I dare not trust the sweetest frame,

But wholly lean on Jesus’ name.

On Christ, the solid Rock I stand;

All other ground is sinking sand,

All other ground is sinking sand.

2 When darkness veils His lovely face,

I rest on His unchanging grace;

In every high and stormy gale,

My anchor holds within the veil.

3 His oath, His covenant, His blood,

Support me in the whelming flood;

When all around my soul gives way,

He then is all my hope and stay.

4 When He shall come with trumpet sound,

Oh, may I then in Him be found;

Dressed in His Righteousness alone,

Faultless to stand before the throne.

# 296 6.6.6.6. with chorus

1 My hope is in the Lord

Who gave Himself for me,

And paid the price of all

My sin at Calvary.

For me He died,

For me He lives,

And everlasting life and light

He freely gives.

2 No merit of my own

His anger to suppress,

My only hope is found

In Jesus’ righteousness.

3 And now for me He stands

Before the Father’s throne,

He shows His wounded hands,

And names me as His own.

4 His grace has planned it all;

’Tis mine but to believe,

And recognize His work

Of love, and Christ receive.

# 297 Irregular Meter

1 In a low dungeon hope we had none;

Tried to believe, but faith didn’t come;

God, our sky clearing, Jesus appearing,

We by God were transfused!

We by God were transfused!

Propitiation made by the blood,

Jesus’ redemption bought us for God!

No condemnation, justification!

We have peace toward God!

We have peace toward God!

2 Born into Adam, dying we were;

We had a sickness no one could cure.

God, His Son sending, old Adam ending;

He is dead, we are free!

He is dead, we are free!

3 Now we’re rejoicing, standing in grace,

Oh hallelujah! Sin is erased!

God, in us flowing, in our hearts growing,

We are saved in His life!

We are saved in His life!

# 298 6.6.6.6.8.8.

1 Arise, my soul, arise!

Shake off thy guilty fears;

The bleeding Sacrifice

In my behalf appears.

Before the throne my Surety stands,

My name is written on His hands,

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 He ever lives above

For me to intercede,

His all-redeeming love,

His precious blood to plead.

His blood was shed for all our race,

And sprinkles now the throne of grace.

3 Five bleeding wounds He bears,

Received on Calvary;

They pour effectual prayers;

They strongly speak for me.

Forgive Him, Oh, forgive, they cry,

Nor let that ransomed sinner die!

4 The Father hears Him pray,

His dear anointed One;

He cannot turn away

The presence of His Son.

His Spirit answers to the blood,

And tells me I am born of God.

5 My God is reconciled,

His pardoning voice I hear;

He owns me for His child,

I can no longer fear.

With confidence I now draw nigh,

And Father, Abba, Father, cry.

# 299 8.6.8.6.

1 A mind at perfect peace with God;

O what a word is is this!

A sinner reconciled through blood;

This, this indeed is peace.

2 By nature and by practice far,

How very far from God;

Yet now by grace brought nigh to Him,

Through faith in Jesus’ blood.

3 So nigh, so very nigh to God,

I cannot nearer be;

For in the person of His Son

I am as near as He.

4 So dear, so very dear to God,

More dear I cannot be;

The love wherewith He loves the Son,

Such is His love to me.

5 Why should I ever anxious be,

Since such a God is mine?

He watches o’er me night and day,

And tells me “Mine is thine.”

# 300 9.8.9.8. with chorus

1 Redeemed—how I love to proclaim it!

Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb;

Redeemed through His infinite mercy,

His child, and forever, I am.

Redeemed, redeemed,

Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb;

Redeemed, redeemed,

His child, and forever, I am.

2 Redeemed and so happy in Jesus,\
No language my rapture can tell;\
I know that the light of His presence\
With me doth continually dwell.

3 I think of my blessed Redeemer,

I think of Him all the day long;

I sing, for I cannot be silent;

His love is the theme of my song.

4 I know I shall see in His beauty

The King in whose law I delight;

Who lovingly guardeth my footsteps,

And giveth me songs in the night.
