351 10.6.10.6. with chorus

1 Down from His splendor in glory He came,

Into a world of woe;

Took on Himself all my guilt and my shame,

Why should He should He love me so?

How can I help but love Him,

When He loved me so?

How can I help but love Him,

When He loved me so?

2 I am unworthy to take of His grace,

Wonderful grace so free;

Yet Jesus suffered and died in my place,

E’en for a soul like me.

3 He is the fairest of thousands to me,

His love is sweet and true;

Wonderful beauty in Him I now see,

More than I ever knew.

352 10.6.10.6.10.10.

1 I love my Lord, but with no love of mine,

For I have none to give;

I love Thee, Lord, but all the love is Thine,

For by Thy love I live.

I am as nothing, and rejoice to be

Emptied, and lost, and swallow’d up in Thee.

2 Thou, Lord, alone, art all Thy children need,

And there is none beside;

From Thee the streams of blessedness proceed,

In Thee the bless’d abide.

Fountain of life, and all-abounding grace,

Our source, our center, and our dwelling-place.

353 8.6.8.6. with repeat

1 Jesus Thine all victorious love

Shed in my soul abroad;

Then shall my heart no longer rove,

Rooted and fix’d in God.

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 Oh, that in me the sacred fire

Might now begin to glow;

Burn up the dross of base desire,

And make the mountains flow.

3 Thou, who at Pentecost didst fall,

Do Thou my sins consume;

Come, Holy Ghost, for Thee I call;

Spirit of Burning, come!

4 Refining fire, go through my heart,

Illuminate my soul;

Scatter Thy life through every part,

And sanctify the whole.

5 My steadfast soul, from falling free,

Shall then no longer move,

While Christ is all the world to me,

And all my heart is love.

354 11.11.11.11.

1 Lord Jesus, I love Thee, I know Thou art mine;

For Thee all the pleasures of sin I resign;

My gracious Redeemer, my Savior art Thou,

If ever I lov’d Thee, Lord Jesus, ‘tis now.

2 I love Thee, because Thou hast first loved me,

And purchased my pardon on Calvary’s tree;

I love Thee for wearing the thorns on Thy brow;

If ever I loved Thee, Lord Jesus, ’tis now.

3 I’ll love Thee in life, I will love Thee in death,

And praise Thee as long as Thou lendest me breath;

And say when the death-dew lies cold on my brow,

If ever I loved Thee, Lord Jesus, ’tis now.

4 In ages eternal of endless delight

I’ll ever adore Thee in glory so bright;

I’ll sing with the glittering crown on my brow,

If ever I loved Thee, Lord Jesus, ’tis now.

355 7.7.7.7.D. with chorus

1 Jesus, Lord, you’re our first love;

You’re the One we love the best.

When our heart is loving You,

How we’re filled with Your sweet rest!

Lord, we love You for Yourself,

Not for what You give or do.

Nothing else could e’er compare

With the joy of loving You.

Lord, we’ve been drawn off by many things;

Now we turn our heart back—how it sings!

We repent of loving other things—

Jesus, Lord, You’re our first love.

(Repeat the first eight lines)

2 Never more could we desire

Anything that’s less than You,

And to this we will aspire—

Simply to be filled with You.

Jesus, Lord, You’re our first love;

You’re the One we love the best.

When our bean is loving You,

How we’re filled with Your sweet rest!

(Do not repeat chorus)

356 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 There is a name I love to hear,

I love to sing its worth;

It sounds like music in mine ear,

The sweetest name on earth.

Oh, how I love Jesus,

Oh, how I love Jesus,

Oh, how I love Jesus,

Because He first loved me!

2 It tells me of a Savior’s love,

Who died to set me free;

It tells me of His precious blood,

The sinner’s perfect plea.

3 It tells me what my Father hath,

In store for every day,

And tho’ I tread a darksome path,

Yields sunshine all the way.

4 It tells of One whose loving heart

Can feel my deepest woe,

Who in each sorrow bears a part,

That none can bear below.

357 11.11.11.11.

1 Oh, who’s like our Jesus? He’s all we desire!

His love draws us near sets our spirits afire!

We cannot but love Him As one we proclaim: “Lord

Jesus, we love Thee exalt Thy dear name!”

2 O Jesus, our Jesus, with Thee we are blest—

Our Life, our Enjoyment, our Peace and our Rest:

Thy name be our theme, and Thy love be our song;

Thy love has inspired both our heart and our tongue!

3 O Jesus, our Jesus, how can we express

Thy dearness, so precious, and Thy loveliness?

When we see Thy beauty, all else fades away—

All shadows must flee at the breaking of day!

4 We love Thee, we love Thee, we love Thee, O Lord.

We love Thee, our Jesus, we love Thee, our God!

We love Thee, we love Thee, and that Thou dost know;

As we’re in Thy presence, love for Thee will grow!

358 6.4.6.4.6.6.4.4.

1 More love to Thee, O Christ,

More love to Thee!

Hear Thou the prayer I make

On bended knee;

This is my earnest plea:

More love, O Christ, to Thee,

More love to Thee, More love to Thee.

2 Once earthly joy I craved,

Sought peace and rest;

Now Thee alone I seek,

Give what is best;

This all my prayer shall be:

More love, O Christ, to Thee,

More love to Thee, More love to Thee!

3 Let sorrow do its work,

Send grief and pain;

Sweet are Thy messengers,

Sweet their refrain,

When they can sing with me:

More love, O Christ, to Thee,

More love to Thee, More love to Thee!

4 Then shall my latest breath

Whisper Thy praise;

This be the parting cry

My heart shall raise;

This still its prayer shall be:

More love, O Christ, to Thee,

More love to Thee, More love to Thee!

359 Irregular Meter

In moments like these I sing out a song,

I sing out a love song to Jesus.

In moments like these I lift up my hands,

I lift up my hands to the Lord.

Singing I love You, Lord,

Singing I love You, Lord,

Singing I love You, Lord,

I love You, Lord.

360 9.7.9.7. with chorus

1 As the deer panteth for the water,

So my soul longeth after Thee.

You alone are my heart’s desire,

And I long to worship Thee.

You alone are my strength, my shield;

To You alone may my spirit yield.

You alone are my heart’s desire

And I long to worship Thee.

2 You’re my friend and You are my brother

Even though You are a King.

I love You more than any other,

So much more than anything.

3 I want You more than gold or silver,

Only You can satisfy.

You alone are the real joy giver

And the apple of my eye.

361 8.6.8.6.

1 As pants the hart for cooling streams

When heated in the chase,

So longs my soul, O God, for Thee,

And Thy refreshing grace.

2 Why restless, why cast down, my soul?

Trust God, who will employ

His aid for thee, and change these sighs

To thankful hymns of joy.

3 For Thee, my God, the living God,

My thirsty soul doth pine;

Oh, when shall I behold Thy face,

Thou Majesty Divine?

4 God of my strength, how long shall I,

Like one forgotten, mourn,

Forlorn, forsaken, and exposed

To my oppressor’s scorn?

5 Why restless, why cast down, my soul?

Hope still, and thou shalt sing

The praise of Him who is thy God,

Thy health’s eternal spring.

362 10.10.10.10.

1 My goal is God Him self, not joy, nor peace,

Nor even blessing, but Himself, my God;

’Tis His to lead me there not mine, but His

At any cost, dear Lord, by any road.

2 So faith bounds forward to its goal in God,

And love can trust her Lord to lead her there;

Upheld by Him, my soul is following hard

Till God hath full fulfilled my deepest prayer.

3 No matter if the way be sometimes dark,

No matter though the cost be oft-times great,

He knoweth how I best shall reach the mark,

The way that leads to Him must needs be strait.

4 One thing I know, I cannot say Him nay;

One thing I do, I press towards my Lord;

My God my glory here, from day to day,

And in the glory there my great Reward.

363 Irregular Meter

1 I need Jesus, my need I now confess;

No friend like Him in times of deep distress;

I need Jesus, the need I gladly own;

Tho’ some may bear their load alone,

Yet I need Jesus.

I need Jesus, I need Jesus,

I need Jesus ev’ry day;

Need Him in the sunshine hour,

Need Him when the storm-clouds low’r;

Every day a long my way,

Yes, I need Jesus.

2 I need Jesus, I need a friend like Him,

A friend to guide when paths of life are dim;

I need Jesus, when foes my soul assail;

Alone I know I can but fail,

So I need Jesus.

3 I need Jesus, I need Him to the end;

No one like Him, He is the sinner’s friend;

I need Jesus, no other friend will do;

So constant, kind, so strong and tree,

Yes, I need Jesus.

364 8.8.8.8.

1 Jesus, Thou Joy of loving hearts,

Thou Fount of life, Thou Light of men,

From the best bliss that earth imparts,

We turn unfilled to Thee again.

2 Thy truth unchanged hath ever stood;

Thou savest those that on Thee call;

To them that seek Thee, Thou art good,

To them that find Thee, all in all!

3 We taste Thee, O Thou living Bread,

And long to feast upon Thee still;

We drink of Thee, the Fountain-head,

And thirst our souls from Thee to fill!

4 Our restless spirits yearn for Thee,

Where’er our changeful lot is cast;

Glad when Thy gracious smile we see

Blest, when our faith can hold Thee fast.

5 O Lord, be Thou our strength and stay!

Make all our moments calm and bright,

Chase all dark thoughts of sin away,

Shed o’er us here Thy holy light.

365 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Love Divine, all love excelling,

Joy of heav’n, to earth come down;

Fix in us Thy humble dwelling,

All Thy faithful mercies crown.

Jesus, Thou art all compassion;

Pure, unbounded love Thou art;

Visit us with Thy salvation,

Enter every trembling heart.

2 Breathe, O breathe Thy loving Spirit

Into every troubled breast;

Let us all in Thee inherit,

Let us find the promised rest.

Take away the love of sinning;

Alpha and Omega be;

End of faith, as its beginning,

Set our hearts at liberty.

3 Come, Almighty, to deliver,

Let us all Thy life receive;

May Thy presence e’er be with us,

Never more Thy temples leave.

Thee we would be always blessing,

Serve Thee as Thou wouldst approve,

Pray, and praise Thee without ceasing,

Glory in Thy perfect love.

4 Finish, then, Thy new creation;

Pure and spotless let us be;

Let us see Thy great salvation

Perfectly restored in Thee;

Changed from glory into glory

Till with Thee we take our place,

Till we cast our crowns before Thee,

Lost in wonder, love and praise.

366 6.6.6.6. with chorus

1 O Light of light, shine in!\
Cast out this night of sin,\
Create true day within:\
O Light of light, shine in!

O Light, all light excelling,

Make my heart Thy dwelling;

O Joy, all grief dispelling,

To my poor heart come in!

2 O Joy of joys, come in!\
End Thou this grief of sin,\
Create calm peace within:\
O Joy of joys, come in!

3 O Life of life, pour in!

Expel this death of sin,

Awake true life within:

O Life of life, pour in!

4 O Love of love, flow in!\
This hateful root of sin\
Deal with, renew, within:\
O Love of love, flow in!

5 O Heaven of heavens, descend!

This cloudy curtain rend,

And all earth’s turmoil end:

O Heaven of heavens, descend!

6 My God and Lord, O come!

Of joys the Joy and Sum,

Make in this heart Thy home:

My God and Lord, O come!

367 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 He died for me that I might live;\
I live for Him who died,\
My life, my love to Him I give—\
Jesus, the Crucified.

O Jesus, my Lord and Savior,\
Help me to fully follow Thee

In life and death and loving service,\
As Thou hast lived and died for me.

2 He died for me that I might die

To Satan, self, and sin;\
O death so deep! O life so high!\
Help me to enter in.

3 He lives for me that I may live

As spotless e’en as He;

Savior, to me Thy nature give,

And live Thy life in me.

4 He lives for me that I may give

His love to hearts that pine;\
Let me like Him for others live,\
And trace His steps divine.

368 8.6.8.6.

1 Be Thou supreme, O Jesus Christ,

Nor creed, nor form, nor word,

Nor holy Church, nor human love,

Compare with Thee, my Lord!

2 Be Thou supreme, O Jesus Christ,

Thy love has conquered me;

Beneath Thy Cross I die to self,

And live alone to Thee.

3 Be Thou supreme, O Jesus Christ,

My inmost being fill;

So shall I think as Thou dost think,

And will as Thou dost will.

4 Be Thou supreme, O Jesus Christ,

Thy life transfigure mine;

And through this veil of mortal flesh,

Lord, let Thy splendor shine.

5 Be Thou supreme, O Jesus Christ,

My soul exults in Thee;

To be Thy slave, to do Thy will,

Is my felicity.

369 10.10.10.10.

1 Abide with me! fast falls the eventide;\
The darkness deepens; Lord, with me abide!\
When other helpers fail and comforts flee,\
Help of the helpless, oh, abide with me.

2 Swift to its close ebbs out life’s little day;\
Earth’s joys grow dim, its glories pass away;\
Change and decay in all around I see;\
O Thou who changest not, abide with me.

3 Come not in terrors, as the King of kings;

But kind and good, with healing in Thy wings:\
Tears for all woes, a heart for every plea;\
Come, Friend of sinners, thus abide with me.

4 I need Thy presence every passing hour:

What but Thy grace can foil the tempter’s power?

Who like Thyself my guide and stay can be?

Through cloud and sunshine, oh, abide with me.

5 I fear no foe, with Thee at hand to bless:\
Ills have no weight, and tears no bitterness:\
Where is death’s sting? where, grave, thy victory?\
I triumph still, if Thou abide with me.

370 Irregular Meter

1 Nothing between my soul and the Savior,

Naught of this world’s delusive dream;

I have renounced all sinful pleasure;

Jesus is mine, there’s nothing between.

Nothing between my soul and the Savior,

So that His blessed face may be seen;

Nothing preventing the least of His favor,

Keep the way clear! Let nothing between.

2 Nothing between, like worldly pleasure;

Habits of life, though harmless they seem,

Must not my heart from Him e’er sever;

He is my all, there’s nothing between.

3 Nothing between, like pride or station;

Self-life or friends shall not intervene;

Though it may cost me much tribulation,

I am resolved; there’s nothing between.

4 Nothing between, e’en many hard trials,

Though the whole world against me convene;

Watching with prayer and much self-denial,

I’ll triumph at last, with nothing between.

371 6.4.6.4. with chorus

1 I need Thee every hour,

Most gracious Lord;

No tender voice like Thine

Can peace afford.

I need Thee, oh, I need Thee;

Every hour I need Thee;

Oh, bless me now, my Savior!

I come to Thee.

2 I need Thee every hour,

Stay Thou near by;

Temptations lose their power

When Thou art nigh.

3 I need Thee every hour,

In joy or pain;

Come quickly and abide,

Or life is vain.

4 I need Thee every hour,

Teach me Thy will;

And Thy rich promises

In me fulfill.

5 I need Thee every hour,

Most Holy One;

Oh, make me’ Thine indeed,

Thou blessed Son.

372 8.6.8.6.

1 Fill Thou my life, O Lord my God,

In ev ‘ry part with praise,

That my whole being may proclaim

Thy being and Thy ways.

2 Not for the lip of praise alone,

Nor e’en the praising heart,

I ask, but for a life made up

Of praise in every part:

3 Fill every part of me with praise;

Let all my being speak

Of Thee and of Thy love, O Lord,

Poor though I be and weak.

4 Praise in the common things of life,

Its goings out and in;

Praise in each duty and each deed,

However small and mean.

5 So shall no part of day or night

From sacredness be free,

But all my life, in every step,

Be fellowship with Thee.

373 Irregular Meter

1 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Let me Thy glory see,

Draw my soul close to Thee,

Then speak in love to me—

Nothing between.

2 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Let not earth’s din and noise

Stifle Thy still small voice;

In it let me rejoice—

Nothing between.

3 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Nothing of earthly care,

Nothing of tear or prayer,

No robe that self may wear—

Nothing between.

4 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Unbelief disappear,

Vanish each doubt and fear,

Fading when Thou art near—

Nothing between.

5 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Shine with unclouded ray,

Chasing each mist away,

O’er my whole heart bear sway—

Nothing between.

6 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Thus may I walk with Thee,

Thee only may I see,

Thine only let me be—

Nothing between.

7 Nothing between, Lord, nothing between;

Till Thine eternal light,

Rising on earth’s dark night,

Bursts on my open sight—

Nothing between.

374 6.6.6.6.

1 I hunger and I thirst;

Jesus, my manna be;

Ye living waters, burst

Out of the rock for me.

2 Thou bruised and broken Bread,

My lifelong wants supply;

As living souls are fed,

O feed me, or I die.

3 Thou true life-giving Vine,

Let me Thy sweetness prove;

Renew my life with Thine,

Refresh my soul with love.

4 For still the desert lies

My thirsting soul before;

O living waters, rise

Within me evermore.

375 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Savior, lead me up the mountain,

Where the Lord alone is seen,

Where we hear the voice from heaven,

Where the air is pure and clean.

Lead me higher up the mountain,

Give me fellowship with Thee;

In Thy light I see the fountain,

And the blood it cleanses me.

2 Higher up where light increases,\
Far above all earthly strife,\
Where the strain of effort ceases,\
Where in Christ we reign in Life.

3 Savior, keep me up the mountain

Pressing on toward the goal,

Till, as one, we share Thine image,

And Thy love and grace extol.

376 7.6.7.6.D.

1 O Bread to pilgrims given,

O Food for saints to eat,

O Manna sent from heaven,

For heav’n-born natures meet;

Give us, for Thee long pining,

To eat till richly filled;

Till, earth’s delights resigning,

Our ev’ry wish is stilled.

2 O Water, life bestowing,

From out the Savior’s heart,

A fountain purely flowing,

A fount of love Thou art.

Oh, let us, freely tasting,

Our burning thirst assuage;

Thy sweetness, never wasting,

Avails from age to age.

3 Jesus, this feast receiving,

We Thee unseen adore;

Thy faithful word believing,

We take, and doubt no more.

Give us, Thou tree and loving,

On earth to live in Thee;

Then, God the veil removing,

Thy glorious face to see.

377 7.6.7.6.D.

1 O God, we seek Your pleasure,

A vision of the Son,

Of that real living Person,

Your dear beloved One!

For He is God embodied,

And He is God expressed;

The Triune God in fullness

In Him is manifest.

2 Now we would leave our own thoughts,

The veils upon our mind,

Removing all the layers

Which long have kept us blind.

Our God is always shining,

The Bible’s full of light,

But we’ve been thickly covered

From radiancy so bright.

3 Lord, bind the god of this age!

We turn our hearts to You.

None other do we worship;

With all beside we’re through.

We’ve only hearts for You, Lord;

Your grace has captured us.

Oh, fill our hearts with vision,

Inward, yet glorious.

4 O Father, how we praise You—

We have Your precious Word!

So full of revelation

That we may see the Lord.

May we pray o’er the verses

And with the saints pursue,

Then get a revelation,

And all Your glory view.

5 ’Tis by our full obedience,

Our heart turned to the Lord,

Our mind set on the spirit

And praying o’er His Word,

That God gives in His pleasure

A vision of His Son,

Revealing Him within us,

His dear beloved One.

378 9.9.9.10. with chorus

1 Fill all my vision, Savior, I pray,

Let me see only Jesus today;

Tho’ through the valley Thou leadest me,

Thy fadeless glory encompasseth me.

Fill all my vision, Savior divine,

Till with Thy glory my spirit shall shine.

Fill all my vision, that all may see

Thy Holy Image reflected in me.

2 Fill all my vision, every desire

Keep for Thy glory; my soul inspire

With Thy perfection, Thy holy love,

Flooding my pathway with light from above.

3 Fill all my vision, let naught of sin

Shadow the brightness shining within.

Let me see only Thy blessed face,

Feasting my soul on Thy infinite grace.

379 11.11.11.11.

1 O Father of glorify, now grant unto me

A spirit of wisdom, a spirit to see;

O give unto me the full knowledge of Him,

Enlightn’ing the eyes of my heart deep within.

2 O show me that Christ is the hope of Thy call—

O glorious hope, Christ will fill all in all!

Reveal Him—the riches of glory in us—

As God’s own inheritance. How glorious!

3 O God of our Lord Jesus, let me perceive

Th’ exceeding great pow’r unto us who believe,

The power that raised Christ, Thy Son, from the dead

And made Him o’er all, to His Body, the Head.

4 O God, Thou hast wrought all this pow’r into Christ,

Who now lives in me as my Person, my life.

O grant revelation, dear Father, to see

This transcending pow’r is a Person in me.

5 O Christ is the hope, He’s the glory and power;

So Christ I must take as my Person each hour.

Then in me such power will be exercised,

My hope and God’s glory will be realized.

380 6.6.8.6.

1 A charge to keep I have—

A God to glorify,

Who gave His Son my soul to save

And fit it for the sky.

2 To serve the present age,\
My calling to fulfill—\
O may it all my pow’rs engage\
To do my Master’s will!

3 Arm me with jealous care,

As in Thy sight to live;

And O Thy servant, Lord, prepare

A strict account to give!

4 Help me to watch and pray,

And on Thyself rely;

And let me ne’er my trust betray,

But press to realms on high.

381 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1 Lord Jesus, Thou who only art

The endless source of purest joy,

O come and fill this longing heart;

May nought but Thee my tho’ts employ.

Teach me on Thee to fix my eye,

For none but Thee can satisfy.

2 The joys of earth can never fill

The heart that’s tasted of Thy love;

No portion would I seek until

I reign with Thee, my Lord, above,

When I shall gaze upon Thy face,

And know more fully all Thy grace,

3 When from Thy radiant throne on high

Thou didst my fall and ruin see,

Thou cam’st on earth for me to die,

That I might share that throne with Thee.

Loved with an everlasting love,

My hopes, my joys are all above.

4 O, what is all that earth can give?

I’m called to share in God’s own joy;

Dead to the world, in Thee I live,

In Thee I’ve bliss without alloy:

Well may I earthly joys resign;

All things are mine, and I am Thine!

5 Till Thou shalt come to take me home,

Be this my one ambition, Lord,

Self, sin, the world, to overcome,

Fast clinging to Thy faithful word;

More of Thyself each day to know,

And more into Thine image grow.

382 8.8.8.8. with chorus

1 More about Jesus would I know,

More of His grace to others show;

More of His saving fullness see,

More of His love who died for me.

More, more about Jesus,

More, more about Jesus;

More of His saving fullness see,

More of His love who died for me.

2 More about Jesus let me learn,\
More of His holy will discern;\
Spirit of God my teacher be,\
Showing the things of Christ to me.

3 More about Jesus; in His Word,

Holding communion with my Lord;

Hearing His voice in every line,

Making each faithful saying mine.

4 More about Jesus; on His throne,

Riches in glory all His own;

More of His kingdom’s sure increase;

More of His coming, Prince of Peace.

383 11.11.11.11.D.

1 Lord Jesus, I long in Thy presence to live,

From morning to evening my one world Thou art;

O let not my heart be contented or rest

When loving or seeking what with Thee doth part.

Each moment, each day, throughout suff’ring and pain,

When nought in the world can give comfort or cheer,

When sighing and weeping encompasses me,

Lord, still all my sighing and wipe ev’ry tear.

2 Each time when I dream of the goodness of life,

I pray Thee, dear Lord, that Thou in it may be;

O do not allow me to choose by myself,

Or seek any pleasure that’s other than Thee.

Each night when alone in the stillness I lie,

I pray Thee, Lord Jesus, that Thou wilt be near;

Each morning ere dawn comes, while still in my sleep,

Then whispering call me and open my ear.

3 Each time, Lord, when reading in Thy holy Word,

I pray that Thy glory may shine on each line,

That clearly I’ll see what a Savior I have

And how great salvation that Thou hast made mine.

When helpless I come, Lord, to kneel at Thy throne,

I pray Thee to hear me and grant me Thy grace;

If thru my shortcomings Thou hear not my prayer,

Withdraw not Thy presence, O hide not Thy face.

4 Each time when of heavenly blessings I think,

O let my heart long to be raptured to Thee;

My only hope here is Thy coming again,

My only joy there, Lord, Thy presence will be.

Lord, teach me each day in Thy presence to live,

From morning to evening my one world Thou art;

O let not my heart be contented or rest

When loving or seeking what with Thee doth part.

384 9.10.9.10.10.

Let the beauty of Jesus be seen in me,

All His wonderful passion and purity.

O Thou Spirit divine, all my nature refine,

Till the beauty of Jesus be seen in me.

385 9.10.9.10.10.

1 Nearer, still nearer, close to Thy heart,

Draw me, my Savior, so precious Thou art;

Fold me, oh, fold me close to Thy breast,

Shelter me safe in that “Haven of Rest.”

Shelter me safe in that “Haven of Rest.”

2 Nearer, still nearer, nothing I bring,

Naught as an off’ring to Jesus, my King;

Only my sinful, now contrite heart,

Grant me the cleansing Thy blood doth impart,

Grant me the cleansing Thy blood doth impart.

3 Nearer, still nearer, Lord, to be Thine,

Sin, with its follies, I gladly resign;

All of its pleasures, pomp and its pride,

Give me but Jesus, my Lord crucified,

Give me but Jesus, my Lord crucified.

4 Nearer, still nearer, while life shall last,

Till safe in glory my anchor is cast;

Thro’ endless ages, ever to be

Nearer, my Savior, still nearer to Thee,

Nearer, my Savior, still nearer to Thee.

386 6.6.6.6.D.

1 My Jesus, as Thou wilt!

Oh, may Thy will be mine!

Into Thy hand of love

I would my all resign;

Through sorrow, or through joy,

Conduct me as Thine own,

And help me still to say,

My Lord, Thy will be done!

2 My Jesus, as Thou wilt!\
Though seen through many a tear,\
Let not my star of hope\
Grow dim or disappear;\
Since Thou on earth hast wept,\
And sorrowed oft alone,\
If I must weep with Thee,\
My Lord, Thy will be done!

3 My Jesus, as Thou wilt!

All shall be well for me;

Each changing future scene

I gladly trust with Thee.

Straight to Thy rest above

I travel calmly on,

And sing, in life or death,

My Lord, Thy will be done!

387 7.7.7.7. with chorus

1 Savior, lead me, lest I stray,

Gently lead me all the way;

I am safe when by Thy side,

I would in Thy love abide.

Lead me, lead me,

Savior, lead me, lest I stray;

Gently down the stream of time,

Lead me, Savior, all the way.

2 Thou the refuge of my soul,

When life’s stormy billows roll,

I am safe when Thou art nigh,

All my hopes on Thee rely.

3 Savior, lead me, then at last,

When the storm of life is past,

To the land of endless day,

Where all tears are wiped away.

388 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Thou my everlasting Portion,

More than friend or life to me,

All along my pilgrim journey,

Savior, let me walk with Thee.

Close to Thee, close to Thee,

Close to Thee, close to Thee;

All along my pilgrim journey,

Savior, let me walk with Thee.

2 Not for ease or worldly pleasure,

Not for fame my prayer shall be;

Gladly will I toil and suffer,

Only let me walk with Thee.

Close to Thee, close to Thee,

Close to Thee, close to Thee;

Gladly will I toil and suffer,

Only let me walk with Thee.

3 Lead me through the vale of shadows,

Bear me o’er life’s fitful sea;

Then the gate of life eternal

May I enter, Lord, with Thee.

Close to Thee, close to Thee,

Close to Thee, close to Thee;

Then the gate of life eternal

May I enter, Lord, with Thee.

389 7.7.7.8.D.

1 I am weak, but Thou art strong;

Jesus, keep me from all wrong;

I’ll be satisfied as long

As I walk, let me walk close to Thee.

Just a closer walk with Thee,

Grant it, Jesus, from all wrong;

Daily walking close to Thee,

Let it be, dear Lord, let it be.

2 Thru this world of toil and snares,

If I falter, Lord, who cares?

Who with me my burden shares?

None but Thee, dear Lord, none but Thee.

3 When my feeble life is o’er,

Time for me will be no more:

On that bright eternal shore,

I will walk, dear Lord, close to Thee.

390 10.7.10.7. with chorus

1 I am Thine, O Lord, I have heard Thy voice,

And it told Thy love to me;

But I long to rise in the arms of faith,

And be closer drawn to Thee.

Draw me nearer, nearer, blessed Lord,

To the cross where Thou hast died;

Draw me nearer, nearer, nearer, blessed Lord,

To Thy precious, bleeding side.

2 Consecrate me now to Thy service, Lord,

By the pow’r of grace divine;

Let my soul look up with a steadfast hope,

And my will be lost in Thine.

3 O the pure delight of a single hour

That before Thy throne I spend,

When I kneel in prayer, and with Thee, my God,

I commune as friend with friend!

4 There are depths of love that I yet may know

Till Thy blessed face I see;

There are heights of joy that I yet may reach

Till I rest in peace with Thee.

391 7.7.7.7.7.7.

1 Jesus, Savior, pilot me

Over life’s tempestuous sea;

Unknown waves before me roll,

Hiding rock and treach’rous shoal;

Chart and compass come from Thee;

Jesus, Savior, pilot me.

2 As a mother stills her child,

Thou canst hush the ocean wild;

Boist’rous waves obey Thy will

When Thou say’st to them, “Be still.”

Wondrous Sov’reign of the sea,

Jesus, Savior, pilot me.

3 Though death’s valley I may pass,

Still Thy grace will fear surpass;

In Thy presence I will rest,

And, while leaning on Thy breast,

I will hear Thee say to me,

“Fear not, I will pilot thee.”

392 8.6.8.6.D.

1 O Jesus Christ, grow Thou in me,

And all things else recede;

My heart be daily nearer Thee,

From sin be daily freed.

Each day let Thy supporting might

My weakness still embrace;

My darkness vanish in Thy light,

Thy life my death efface.

2 In Thy bright beams which on me fall,

Fade every evil thought;

That I am nothing, Thou art all,

I would be daily taught.

3 More of Thy glory let me see,

Thou Holy, Wise, and True;

I would Thy living image be,

In joy and sorrow too.

4 Fill me with gladness from above,

Hold me by strength divine;

Lord, let the glow of Thy great love

Through all my being shine.

5 Make this poor self grow less and less,

Be Thou my life and aim;

Oh, make me daily through Thy grace

More meet to bear Thy name.

393 Irregular Meter

1 Lord, teach us how to pray,

Not as the nations do in vain,

But turn us from our way,

And cause us, Lord, to call on You each day—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

2 Lord, You’re the seed of life;

You’ve sown Yourself into our heart,

And now You have a start;

So day by day more life to us impart—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

3 Lord Jesus, soften us;

You know the source from which we came.

By calling on Your name,

Lord, let no earth unturned nor rocks remain—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

4 Lord, how Your light makes clear

That we could not but e’er fail You;

Yet there’s a message true,

The seed of life within us will break through—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

5 Make us in spirit poor;

Lord, take whate’er we think we know.

We’ll open to life’s flow,

And thus take in the life that makes us grow—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

6 Lord, make us pure in heart;\
For we’ll not be content until\
You all our being fill,\
O Lord, renew our mind, emotion, will—\
Lord Jesus, grow in us.

7 Yes, Lord, impress our heart

That we must take You in each day;

The seed will have its way;

Your growing brings the kingdom here to stay—

Lord Jesus, grow in us.

8 Amen!—The growth in life!\
There’s nothing that Your life can’t do;\
Our every part renew.\
We’ll make it, we’ll make it just by You.\
Lord Jesus, grow in us.\
Lord Jesus, grow in us.

# 394 Irregular Meter

Not my will but Thine be done,

But let the fullness of the Son

Rule within this life that I have offered Thee,

Until everything I do

Becomes the thing that pleases You,

Abba Father I would be a son indeed.

395 8.8.8.8.D.

1 I’m pressing on the upward way,

New heights I’m gaining ev’ry day;

Still praying as I onward bound,

“Lord, plant my feet on higher ground.”

Lord, lift me up, and let me stand

By faith on Canaan’s tableland;

A higher plane than I have found,

Lord, plant my feet on higher ground.

2 My heart has no desire to stay\
Where doubts arise and fears dismay;\
Though some may dwell where these abound,\
My prayer, my aim, is higher ground.

3 I want to live above the world,

Though Satan’s darts at me are hurled;

For faith has caught the joyful sound,

The song of saints on higher ground.

4 I want to scale the utmost height

And catch a gleam of glory bright;

But still I’ll pray till rest I’ve found,

“Lord, lead me on to higher ground.”

396 6.5.6.5.D. with chorus

1 More holiness give me, More sweetness within,

More patience in suff’ring, More sorrow for sin,

More faith in my Savior, More sense of His care,

More joy in His service, More freedom in prayer.

Come, my Savior, and help me,

Comfort, strengthen and keep me;

Thou each moment wilt save me,

Thou art saving me now.

2 More gratitude give me, More trust in the Lord,\
More zeal for His glory, More hope in His Word,\
More tears for His sorrows, More pain at His grief,\
More meekness in trial, More praise for relief.

3 More victory give me, More strength to o’ercome,

More freedom from earth-stains, More quest for the throne,

More fit for the kingdom, More useful I’d be,

More blessed and holy, More, Savior, like Thee.

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

(No English translation)

397 10.9.10.9.D.

1 O to be like Thee! blessed Redeemer;

This is my constant longing and prayer;

Gladly I’ll forfeit all of earth’s treasures,

Jesus,Thy perfect likeness to wear.

O to be like Thee! O to be like Thee!

Blessed Redeemer, pure as Thou art;

Come in Thy sweetness, come inThy fullness;

StampThine own image deep on my heart.

2 O to be like Thee! full of compassion,

Loving, forgiving, tender and kind,

Helping the helpless, cheering the fainting,

Seeking the wand’ring sinners to find.

3 O to be like Thee! Lord, I am coming,

Now to receive th’ anointing divine;

All that I am and have I am bringing;

Lord, from this moment all shall be Thine.

4 O to be like Thee! lowly in spirit,

Holy and harmless, patient and brave;

Meekly enduring cruel reproaches,

Willing to suffer, others to save.

5 O to be like Thee! While I am pleading

Pour out Thy Spirit, fill with Thy love.

Make me a temple meet for Thy dwelling,

Fit for a life which Thou wouldst approve.

398 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Live Thyself, Lord Jesus, through me,

For my very life art Thou;

Thee I take to all my problems

As the full solution now.

Live Thyself, Lord Jesus, through me,

In all things Thy will be done;

I but a transparent vessel

To make visible the Son.

2 Consecrated is Thy temple,

Purged from every stain and sin;

May Thy flame of glory now be

Manifested from within.

Let the earth in solemn wonder

See my body willingly

Offered as Thy slave obedient,

Energized alone by Thee.

3 Every moment, every member,

Girded, waiting Thy command;

Underneath the yoke to labor

Or be laid aside as planned.

When restricted in pursuing,

No disquiet will beset;

Underneath Thy faithful dealing

Not a murmur or regret.

4 Ever tender, quiet, restful,

Inclinations put away,

That Thou may for me choose freely

As Thy finger points the way.

Live Thyself, Lord Jesus, through me.

For my very life art Thou;

Thee I take to all my problems

As the full solution now.

399 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Having seen the world’s fair beauty,

Lord, I would be blind once more,

Lest I lose the loving Presence

And Delight I knew before.

Having seen the world’s fair beauty,

Lord, I would be blind once more,

Lest I lose the loving Presence

And Delight I knew before.

(This hymn was written shortly after its author;

who had been born blind, gained her sight.)

2 Dawn and sunset, star and moonlight,

I can see in paradise,

But while here on earth His mercy

For my blindness will suffice.

3 I no more would be delivered

From my thom, but look for grace,

While within the veil His glory

Shineth brightly on my face.

4 In the deep dark night, His beauty

I by faith, not sight, may trace;

He was ridiculed and hated,

Yet I see His glorious face.

5 Sun and moonlight far surpassing,

Clouds and Milky Way o’erspread,

Is the glory all transcending

Shining from His thorn-crowned head.

400 6.4.6.4.6.6.6.4.

1 Teach me Thy way, O Lord, Teach me Thy way;

Thy gracious aid afford, Teach me Thy way.

Help me to walk aright; More by faith, less by sight;

Lead me with heav’nly light, Teach me Thy way.

2 When doubts and fears arise, Teach me Thy way;

When storms o’erspread the skies, Teach me Thy way.

Shine thro’ the cloud and rain, Thro’ sorrow, toil, and pain;

Make Thou my pathway plain, Teach me Thy way.

3 Long as my life shall last, Teach me Thy way;

Where’er my lot be cast, Teach me Thy way.

Until the race is run, Until the journey’s done,

Until the crown is won, Teach me Thy way.
