# 383 11.11.11.11.D.

1.  Lord Jesus, I long in Thy presence to live,

From morning to evening my one world Thou art;

O let not my heart be contented or rest

When loving or seeking what with Thee doth part.

Each moment, each day, throughout suff’ring and pain,

When nought in the world can give comfort or cheer,

When sighing and weeping encompasses me,

Lord, still all my sighing and wipe ev’ry tear.

2.  Each time when I dream of the goodness of life,

I pray Thee, dear Lord, that Thou in it may be;

O do not allow me to choose by myself,

Or seek any pleasure that’s other than Thee.

Each night when alone in the stillness I lie,

I pray Thee, Lord Jesus, that Thou wilt be near;

Each morning ere dawn comes, while still in my sleep,

Then whispering call me and open my ear.

3.  Each time, Lord, when reading in Thy holy Word,

I pray that Thy glory may shine on each line,

That clearly I’ll see what a Savior I have

And how great salvation that Thou hast made mine.

When helpless I come, Lord, to kneel at Thy throne,

I pray Thee to hear me and grant me Thy grace;

If thru my shortcomings Thou hear not my prayer,

Withdraw not Thy presence, O hide not Thy face.

4.  Each time when of heavenly blessings I think,

O let my heart long to be raptured to Thee;

My only hope here is Thy coming again,

My only joy there, Lord, Thy presence will be.

Lord, teach me each day in Thy presence to live,

From morning to evening my one world Thou art;

O let not my heart be contented or rest

When loving or seeking what with Thee doth part.

