401 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 Lord Jesus, I long to be perfectly whole,

I want Thee forever to live in my soul;

Break down ev’ry idol, cast out ev’ry foe;

Now wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

Whiter than snow; yes, whiter than snow;

Now wash me and I shall be whiter than snow.

2 Lord Jesus, let nothing unholy remain,

Apply Thine own blood and extract every stain;

To get this blest cleansing I all things forego;

Now wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

3 Lord Jesus, look down from Thy throne in the skies,

And help me to make a complete sacrifice;

I give up myself and whatever I know;

Now wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

4 Lord Jesus, for this I most humbly entreat;

I wait, blessed Lord, at Thy crucified feet;

By faith, for my cleansing I see Thy blood flow;

Now wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

5 Lord Jesus, Thou seest I patiently wait;

Come now, and within me a new heart create;

To those who have sought Thee Thou never saidst, No;

Now wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

402 8.6.8.6.

1 Search me, O God, my actions try,

And let my life appear

As seen by thine all-searching eye—

To mine my ways make clear.

2 Search all my sense, and know my heart\
Who only canst make known,\
And let the deep, the hidden part\
To me be fully shown.

3 Throw light into the darkened cells,

Where passion reigns within;

Quicken my conscience till it feels

The loathsomeness of sin.

4 Search all my thoughts, the secret springs,

The motives that control;

The chambers where polluted things

Hold empire o’er the soul.

5 Search, till Thy fiery glance has cast

Its holy light through all,

And I by grace am brought at last

Before Thy face to fall.

6 Thus prostrate I shall learn of Thee,

What now I feebly prove,

That God alone in Christ can be

Unutterable love.

403 8.6.8.6.

1 Oh, for a heart to praise my God,

A heart from sin set free,

A heart that’s sprinkled with the blood

So freely shed for me.

2 A heart resigned, submissive, meek,

My dear Redeemer’s throne;

Where only Christ is heard to speak,

Where Jesus reigns alone.

3 A humble, lowly, contrite heart,

Believing, true, and clean,

Which neither death nor life can part

From Him that dwells within.

4 A heart in every thought renewed,

And filled with love divine;

Perfect and right, and pure and good,

A copy, Lord, of Thine.

5 Thy nature, gracious Lord, impart,

Come quickly frown above;

Write Thy new name upon my heart,

Thy new, best name of Love.

404 6.6.8.6.

1 Bless’d are the pure in heart,

For they shall see our God;

The secret of the Lord is theirs,

Their heart is Christ’s abode.

2 The Lord, who left the heavens,\
Our life and peace to bring,\
To dwell in lowliness with men,\
Their pattern and their King:

3 He to the lowly soul

Doth still Himself impart,

And for His dwelling and His throne

Chooseth the pure in heart.

4 Lord, we Thy presence seek;

May ours this blessing be;

Give us a pure and lowly heart,

A temple meet for Thee.

405 7.7.7.7.D.

1 Lord, reveal Thyself to me,

That the flesh I’ll fully know;

May Thy grace so work in me,

That in dust I’ll lowly bow.

How I long for victory,

Yet, thru all my life, how weak!

Evil things I cannot leave,

Nor can do the good I seek.

2 Inwardly I want the Lord,\
But my conduct hateful is;\
Though I would, I cannot change,\
O what real bondage ’tis!\
By God’s law my sin’s revealed,\
But the law of sin doth bind;\
Though I struggle to be free,\
No release my soul can find.

3 Many times I fall and rise,\
Oft resolve, and often fail;\
Craving vict’ry, I retreat,\
And my sad defeat bewail.\
Truly I am sold to sin\
And completely powerless;\
There’s no good within my flesh,\
All is dark and sinfulness.

4 Now I know myself in part,\
And confess my helplessness;\
All my temperament is odd,\
All my life corrupted is.\
Subtle self I cannot trust,\
Nor to fleshly strength can cling;\
All my trust and all my hope\
Are in Jesus Christ my King.

5 May the Cross put me to death

That on Christ I may rely;

May His Holy Spirit fill,

That Himself I may apply.

May His death so work in me

Daily deeper than before,

That my self may be destroyed

And His life thru me may pour.

6 O how bitter is my case!

Who this wretched slave can free,

Who deliver from this death,

To a life of victory?

Jesus shed His blood for me,

Christ is now my holiness;

I receive Him as my life

And my portion measureless.

7 Now I’m wholly sanctified,

Selfless, I obey His word;

Nevermore to feel ashamed

When I come before the Lord.

How transcendent is this life!

Grace thru faith He gives to me!

Praise the Lord, He heard my cry

And has made me wholly free.

406 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1.  Lord, Thou knowest all the hunger

Of the heart that seeks Thee now;

How my soul hath long been craving

What Thou only canst bestow.

Seeking now, seeking now,

Let Thy Spirit meet me now.

1.  Failure in my walk and witness,

Failure in my work I see;

Fruitless toil, un-Christlike living,

Calling forth no praise to Thee.

1.  Now to Thee my soul confesses

All its failure, all its sin;

All the pride, the self-contentment,

All the “secret faults” within.

1.  Save me from myself, my Father,

From each subtle form of pride;

Lead me now with Christ to Calvary,

Show me I with Him have died.

1.  No more let it be my working,

Nor my wisdom, love, or power,

But the life of Jesus only,

Passing through me hour by hour.

1.  Let the fullness of Thy Spirit

Resting on Him cover me,

That the witness borne to others,

May bring glory, Lord, to Thee.

7 Father, in Thy Son’s Name, pleading,

I believe my prayer is heard;

And I praise Thee for the answer,

Resting simply on Thy word.

407 10.10.10.10. with chorus

1 Lower and lower, dear Lord, at Thy feet,

Seeking Thy Spirit, Thy mercy so sweet;

Down in our need, blessed Master, we fall,

Lower and lower; be Thou all in all.

Lower and lower, down at Thy cross,

All the world’s treasure counting but dross;

Down at Thy feet, blessed Savior, we fall,

Lower, still lower, Christ all in all!

2 Lower and lower, dear Savior, we pray,

Losing the self-life still more every day;

Weak and unworthy, we’re looking above;

Empty us wholly; then fill us with love.

3 Lower and lower; yet higher we rise,

Lifted in Christ, freed from all the earth ties;

Humbly we follow the way of the cross,

Then, crowns of glory, and gain for all loss.

408 7.7.7.7.

1 Jesus, cast a look on me;

Give me sweet simplicity;

Make me poor, and keep me low,

Seeking only Thee to know.

2 Weaned from all my lordly self,

Weaned from all the miser’s pelf,

Weaned from all the scorner’s ways,

Weaned from all the lust of praise.

3 All that feeds my busy pride,

Cast it evermore aside;

Bid my will to Thine submit,

Lay me humbly at Thy feet.

4 Make me like a little child,

Of my strength and wisdom spoiled;

Seeing only in Thy light,

Walking only in Thy might;

5 Leaning on Thy loving breast,

Where a weary soul may rest;

Feeling well the peace of God

Flowing from Thy precious blood.

6 In this posture let me live,

And hosannas daily give;

In this temper let me die,

And hosannas ever cry.

409 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1 Thou hidden love of God, whose height,

hose depth unfathomed no man knows,

I see from far Thy beauteous light,

Inly I sigh for Thy repose;

My heart is pained, nor can it be

At rest, till it finds rest in Thee.

2 Thy secret voice invites me still

The sweetness of Thy yoke to prove;

And fain I would: but though my will

Seems fixed, yet wide my passions rove;

Yet hindrances strew all the way;

I aim at Thee, yet from Thee stray.

3 ’Tis mercy all, that Thou hast brought

My mind to seek her peace in Thee;

Yet, while I seek but find Thee not,

No peace my wand’ring soul shall see.

Oh, when shall all my wand’rings end,

And all my steps to Thee-ward tend!

4 Is there a thing beneath the sun

That strives with Thee my heart to share?

Ah! tear it thence, and reign alone,

The Lord of every motion there.

Then shall my heart from earth be free,

When it has found repose in Thee.

5 Oh, hide this self from me, that I

No more, but Christ in me may live;

My vile affections mortify,

Nor let one darling sin survive.

In all things nothing may I see,

Nothing desire or seek but Thee.

6 O Lord, Thy sovereign aid impart,

To save me from low-thoughted care;

Chase this self-will through all my heart,

Through all its latent mazes there,

Make me Thy duteous child, that I

Ceaseless may Abba, Father, cry.

7 Each moment draw from earth away

My heart which lowly waits Thy call;

Speak to my inmost soul and say,

“I am Thy Love, Thy God, Thy All.”

To feel Thy power, to hear Thy voice,

To taste Thy love, be all my choice.

# 410 11.10.11.10.

1 Jesus, Redeemer and my one Inspirer,

Heat in my coldness, set my life aglow.

Break down my barriers; draw, yea, draw me nigher.

Thee would I know, whom it is life to know.

2 Deepen me, rid me of the superficial;

From pale delusion set my spirit free;

All the entangled in me quick unravel;

Pluck forth each thread of insincerity.

3 Thy vows are on me, oh to serve Thee truly—

Love perfectly, in purity obey—

Burn, burn, O Fire. O Wind, now winnow throughly;

O Sword, awake against the flesh and slay.

411 6.6.4.6.6.6.4.

1 My faith looks up to Thee,

Thou Lamb of Calvary,

Savior Divine;

Now hear me while I pray;

Take all my guilt away;

Oh, let me from this day

Be wholly Thine.

2 May Thy rich grace impart\
Strength to my fainting heart,\
My zeal inspire;\
As Thou hast died for me,\
Oh, may my love to Thee\
Pure, warm, and changeless be,\
A living fire.

3 While life’s dark maze I tread,

And griefs around me spread,

Be Thou my Guide;

Bid darkness turn to day,

Wipe sorrow’s tears away,

Nor let me ever stray

From Thee aside.

4 When ends life’s transient dream,

When death’s cold, sullen stream,

Shall o’er me roll;

Blest Savior, then, in love,

Fear and distrust remove;

Oh, bear me safe above,

A ransomed soul.

412 8.8.6.8.8.6.

1 O Love divine, how sweet Thou art,

When shall I find my willing heart

All taken up by Thee?

My thirsty spirit faints to prove

The greatness of redeeming love,

The love of Christ to me.

2 Stronger His love than death and hell,

Its riches are unsearchable:

The first-born sons of light

Desire in vain its depths to see;

They cannot reach the mystery,

The length, and breadth, and height.

3 God only knows the love of God;

Oh, that it now were shed abroad

In this poor stony heart;

For love I sigh, for love I pine;

This only portion, Lord, be mine,

Be mine this better part.

4 Oh, that I could forever sit

Like Mary, at the Master’s feet;

Be this my happy choice;

My only care, delight, and bliss,

My joy, my rest on earth be this,

To hear the Bridegroom’s voice.

413 7.7.7.5.

1 Gracious Spirit, Holy Ghost,

Taught by You, we covet most,

Of Your gifts at Pentecost,

Holy heavenly love.

2 Faith that mountains could remove,

Tongues of earth or heaven above,

Knowledge, all things, empty prove

Without heavenly love.

3 Love is kind, and suffers long,

Love is meek, and thinks no wrong,

Love than death itself more strong:

Therefore give us love.

4 Though I as a martyr bleed,

Give my goods the poor to feed,

All is vain if love I need;

Therefore give me love.

5 Prophecy will fade away

Melting in the light of day;

Love will ever with us stay:

Therefore give us love.

6 Faith, and hope, and love we see

Joining hand in hand, agree;

But the greatest of the three,

And the best, is love.

414 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1 O Lord, Thy boundless love to me

No thought can reach, no tongue declare;

Oh, knit my thankful heart to Thee,

And reign without a rival there;

Thine wholly, Thine alone I am;

Lord, with Thy love my heart inflame.

2 Oh, grant that nothing in my soul

May dwell but Thy pure love alone;

Oh, may Thy love possess me whole,

My joy, my treasure, and my crown;

All coldness from my heart remove;

May every act, word, thought, be love.

3 O Love, how cheering is Thy ray,

All pain before Thy presence flies;

Care, anguish, sorrow, melt away,

Where’er Thy healing beams arise;

Lord Jesus, nothing may I see,

And naught desire, or seek, but Thee.

415 10.10.10.10.

1 Search me, O God, and know my heart today;

Try me, O Savior, know my thoughts, I pray.

See if there be some wicked way in me;

Cleanse me from every sin and set me free.

2 I praise Thee, Lord, for cleansing me from sin;

Fulfill Thy Word and make me pure within.

Fill me with fire where once I burned with shame;

Grant my desire to magnify Thy name.

3 Lord, take my life and make it wholly Thine;

Fill my poor heart with Thy great love divine.

Take all my will, my passion, self and pride;

I now surrender, Lord—in me abide.

4 O Holy Ghost, revival comes from Thee;

Send a revival—start the work in me.

Thy Word declares Thou wilt supply our need;

For blessings now, O Lord, I humbly plead.

416 9.9.10.10.6. with chorus Graham Kendrick

1 Lord, the light of Your love is shining,

In the midst of the darkness shining;

Jesus, Light of the world, shine upon us;

Set us free by the truth You now bring us,

Shine on me, shine on me.

Shine, Jesus, shine,

Fill this land with the Father’s glory;

Blaze, Spirit, blaze, Set our hearts on fire.

Flow, River, flow,Flood the nations with grace and glory;

Send forth Your Word, Lord, and let there be light.

2 Lord, I come to Your awesome presence,

From the shadows into Your radiance;

By the blood I may enter Your brightness,

Search me, try me, consume all my darkness,

Shine on me, shine on me.

3 As we gaze on Your kingly brightness,

So our faces display Your likeness;

Ever changing from glory to glory,

Mirror’d here may our lives tell Your story,

Shine on me, shine on me.

417 7.7.7.7.

1 Prince of peace, control my will;

Bid this struggling heart be still:

Bid my fears and doubtings cease:

Hush my spirit into peace.

2 Thou hast bought me with Thy blood,

Opened wide the gate to God;\
Peace I ask, but peace must be,\
Lord, in being one with Thee.

3 May Thy will, not mine be done;

May Thy will and mine be one;

Chase these doubtings from my heart,

Now Thy perfect peace impart.

4 Savior, at Thy feet I fall,

Thou, my life, my God, my all;

Let Thy happy servant be

One forevermore with Thee.

418 8.8.8.4.

1 When I am in the natural man,

How very strong I feel I am,

I do not know, I cannot scan How weak I am.

2 When in the world I have my life,

I cannot sense my failure rife,

But boasting in my earnest strife,

I forward press.

3 When I within the darkness dwell,

My shallow state I cannot tell,

I only think how I excel,

And proudly dream.

4 But when at last I come to Thee,

Thy searching light uncovers me,

I see what I could never see—

Myself exposed.

5 I wither ‘neath Thy piercing ray,

And all my strength dissolves away,

My self-esteem in dust I lay,

And lowly bow.

6 How blind and foolish is the pride

With which my soul was fortified;

From my dark heart, self-satisfied,

It issued forth.

7 There’s not a thing that pride can claim,

There’s not a member but is lame,

There’s only deep regret and shame,

How can I pray?

8 Thy blood from judgment saveth me,

Thy life from wrath delivers me,

How filthy yet in poverty

I really am.

9 I want to pray, but faith have not,

I fain would seek Thee as Thou art.

Oh, canst Thou e’er renew my heart,

Have mercy, Lord!

419 11.10.11.10.

1 I am the Lord’s! O joy beyond expression,

O sweet response to voice of love Divine;

Faith’s joyous “Yes” to the assuring whisper,

“Fear not! I have redeem’d thee; thou art Mine.”

2 I am the Lord’s! It is the glad confession

Wherewith the Bride recalls the happy day,

When love’s “I will” accepted Him forever,

“The Lord’s,” to love, to honor and obey.

3 I am the Lord’s! Yet teach me all it meaneth,

All it involves of love and loyalty,

Of holy service, absolute surrender,

And unreserved obedience unto Thee.

4 I am the Lord’s! Yes; body, soul, and spirit,

O seal them irrecoverably Thine;

As Thou, Beloved, in Thy grace and fullness

Forever and forevermore art mine.

420 8.6.8.6. with repeat

1 How vast, immense, and measureless,

The love of Christ to

How else could such a wretch as I

Be blessed so wondrously?

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 To bring me back unto Himself,

My Lord His all did spend;

So I would gladly bear the cross

And follow to the end.

3 My all I have forsaken now,

This blessed Christ to gain;

Now life or death is no concern—

What else can me restrain?

4 My dear ones, wealth, ambition, fame—

What can they offer me?

My gracious Lord for me was poor;

For Him I poor would be.

5 My precious Savior now I love,

His smile I would obtain.

For Him, let gain be turned to loss

And comfort turned to pain.

6 Thou art my comfort, gracious Lord!

I’ve none in heav’n but Thee.

And who but Thee is there on earth

With whom I love to be?

7 Though loneliness and hardships come,

My soul can rise above.

This only would I ask Thee, Lord:

Enfold me in Thy love!

8 O gracious Lord, I now beseech,

Guide me through every stage;

Stand by and strengthen me to go

Through this dark, evil age.

9 The world, the flesh, and Satan too,

Do tempt my soul apace;

Without Thy love and strength’ning power

I may Thy name disgrace.

10 The time, dear Lord, is short indeed;

From earth my soul set free.

When Thou dost come, I’ll sing with joy,

Hallelujah, Lord, to Thee!

421 8.8.8.8.6.

1 O Love, that wilt not let me go,

I rest my weary soul in Thee;

I give Thee back the life I owe,

That in Thine ocean depths its flow

May richer, fuller be.

2 O Light, that followest all my way,\
I yield my flickering torch to Thee;\
My heart restores its borrowed ray,\
That in Thy sunshine’s blaze its day\
May brighter, fairer be.

3 O Joy, that seekest me through pain,

I cannot close my heart to Thee;

I trace the rainbow through the rain,

And feel the promise is not vain

That morn shall tearless be.

4 O Cross, that liftest up my head,

I dare not ask to fly from Thee;

I lay in dust life’s glory dead,

And from the ground there blossoms red

Life that shall endless be.

422 8.8.6.8.8.6.

1 Lord, Thou hast won, at length I yield;\
My heart by mighty grace compelled\
Surrenders all to Thee;\
Against Thy terrors long I strove,\
But who can stand against Thy love?\
Love conquers even me.

2 If Thou hadst bid Thy thunders roll,

And light’nings flash, to blast my soul,

I still had stubborn been;

But mercy has my heart subdued,

A bleeding Savior I have viewed,

And now I hate my sin.

3 Now, Lord, I would be Thine alone,

Come, take possession of Thine own,

For Thou hast set me free;

Released from Satan’s hard command,

See all my powers waiting stand,

To be employed by Thee.

423 6.6.6.6.8.6.

1 Thy Life was giv’n for me,

Thy blood, O Lord, was shed,

That I might ransomed be,

And quickened from the dead;

Thy Life was giv’n for me, for me;

What have I giv’n for Thee?

2 Long years were spent for me

In weariness and woe,

That through eternity

Thy glory I might know;

Long years were spent for me, for me;

Have I spent one for Thee?

3 Thy Father’s home of light,

Thy rainbow-circled throne,

Were left for earthly night,

For wanderings sad and lone;

Yea, all was left for me, for me;

Have I left aught for Thee?

4 Thou, Lord, hast borne for me

More than my tongue can tell

Of bitterest agony,

To rescue me from hell;

Thou suff’redst all for me, for me;

What have I borne for Thee?

5 And Thou hast brought to me

Down from Thy home above

Salvation full and free,

Thy pardon and Thy love;

Great gifts, great gifts Thou broughtest me;

What have I brought to Thee?

6 Oh, let my life be given,

My years for Thee be spent;

World-fetters all be riven,

And joy with suffr’ing blent;

Thou gav’st Thyself for me, for me,

I give myself to Thee.

424 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Hast thou heard Him, seen Him, known Him?

Is not thine a captured heart?

Chief among ten thousand own Him;

Joyful choose the better part.

Captivated by His beauty,

Worthy tribute haste to bring;

Let His peerless worth constrain thee,

Crown Him now unrivaled King.

2 Idols once they won thee, charmed thee,

Lovely things of time and sense;

Gilded thus does sin disarm thee,

Honeyed lest thou turn thee thence.

3 What has stripped the seeming beauty

From the idols of the earth?

Not a sense of right or duty,

But the sight of peerless worth.

4 Not the crushing of those idols,

With its bitter void and smart;

But the beaming of His beauty,

The unveiling of His heart.

5 Who extinguishes their taper

Till they hail the rising sun?

Who discards the garb of winter

Till the summer has begun?

6 ’Tis that look that melted Peter,

’Tis that face that Stephen saw,

’Tis that heart that wept with Mary,

Can alone from idols draw:

7 Draw and win and fill completely,\
Till the cup o’erflow the brim;\
What have we to do with idols\
Who have companied with Him?

425 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 All to Jesus I surrender,

All to Him I freely give;

I will ever love and trust Him,

In His presence daily live.

I surrender all, I surrender all.

All to Thee, my blessed Savior, I surrender all.

2 All to Jesus I surrender,

Humbly at His feet I bow,

Worldly pleasures all forsaken;

Take me, Jesus, take me now.

3 All to Jesus I surrender,

Make me, Savior, wholly Thine;

Let me feel Thy Holy Spirit,

Truly know that Thou art mine.

4 All to Jesus I surrender,

Lord, I give myself to Thee;

Fill me with Thy love and power,

Let Thy blessing fall on me.

5 All to Jesus I surrender,

Now I feel the sacred flame.

Oh, the joy of full salvation!

Glory, glory to His name!

426 12.9.12.9. with chorus

1 You have longed for sweet peace, and for faith to increase,

And have earnestly, fervently prayed;

But you cannot have rest, or be perfectly blest,

Until all on the altar is laid.

Is your all on the altar of sacrifice laid?

Your heart, does the Spirit control?

You can only be blest and have peace and sweet rest,

As you yield Him your body and soul.

2 Would you walk with the Lord in the light of His Word,

And have peace and contentment alway;

You must do His sweet will to be free from all ill;

On the altar your all you must lay.

3 Oh, we never can know what the Lord will bestow

Of the blessings for which we have prayed,

Till our body and soul He doth fully control,

And our all on the altar is laid.

4 Who can tell all the love He will send from above!

Oh, how happy our heart will be made!

Oh, what fellowship sweet we shall share at His feet,

When our all on the altar is laid!

427 7.7.7.7. with repeat

1 Take my life, and let it be

Consecrated, Lord, to Thee;

Take my moments and my days,

Let them flow in ceaseless praise.

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2.  Take my hands, and let them move

    At the impulse of Thy love;

    Take my feet and let them be

    Swift and beautiful for Thee.

    3 Take my voice, and let me sing

    Always, only, for ‘my King;

    Take my lips, and let them be

    Filled with messages from Thee.

    4 Take my silver and my gold;

    Not a mite would I withhold;

    Take my intellect, and use

    Every power as Thou shalt choose.

    5 Take my will, and make it Thine;

    It shall be no longer mine.

    Take my heart; it is Thine own;

    It shall be Thy royal throne.

    6 Take my love; my Lord, I pour

    At Thy feet its treasure-store.

    Take myself, and I will be

    Ever, only, all for Thee.

    428 Irregular Meter

    1 What shall I give Thee, Master?

    Thou who didst die for me.

    Shall I give less of what I possess,

    Or shall I give all to Thee?

    Jesus, my Lord and Savior;

    Thou hast giv’n all for me;

    Thou didst leave Thy home above

    To die on Calvary.

    What shall I give Thee, Master?

    Thou hast giv’n all for me;

    Not just a part or half of my heart,

    I will give all to Thee.

    2 What shall I give Thee, Master?

    Thou hast redeemed my soul;

    My gift is small but it is my all—

    Surrendered to Thy control,

    3 What shall I give Thee, Master?

    Giver of gifts divine!

    I Will not hold time, talents or gold—

    For everything shall be Thine.

    429 5.4.5.4.D.

    1 Have Thine own way, Lord,\
    Have Thine own way; Thou art the Potter,\
    I am the clay.\
    Mould me and make me After Thy will,\
    While I am waiting, Yielded and still.

    2 Have Thine own way, Lord, Have Thine own way;\
    Search me and try me, Master, today.\
    Whiter than snow, Lord, Wash me just now,\
    As in Thy presence Humbly I bow.

    3 Have Thine own way, Lord, Have Thine own way;

    Wounded and weary, Help me, I pray.

    Power, all power, Surely is Thine,

    Touch me and heal me, Savior divine.

    4 Have Thine own way, Lord, Have Thine own way;

    Hold o’er my being Absolute sway.

    Fill with Thy Spirit Till all shall see

    Christ only, always, Living in me.

    430 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

    1 Tell me not of earthly pleasures,

    Tempt me not with sordid gain;

    Mock me not with earth’s illusions,

    Vex me not with honors vain.

    I am weaned from sinful idols;

    I am henceforth not my own;

    I have given my heart to Jesus,

    I belong to Him alone.

    I am not my own, I am not my own.

    I belong to Jesus, And I am not my own.

    2 Oh, the blessed rest it brings us

    To belong to Christ alone;

    We can draw on all His fulness

    When we’ve nothing of our own.

    Blessed Jesus, take me, own me,

    Make me, keep me wholly Thine.

    Deign to find in me Thy portion,

    While I joy to call Thee mine.

    3 Weary soul, give up the struggle,

    Cease at length thyself to own;

    Give yourself away to Jesus,

    And belong to Him alone.

    Once He gave His all to win thee,

    Now He asks as much of thee;

    All He has He fully gives thee;

    Let thy love His portion be.

    431 7.7.7.7.7.7.

    1 When this passing world is done,

    When has sunk yon glaring sun,\
    When we stand with Christ on high,\
    Looking o’er life’s history;\
    Then, Lord, shall I fully know,\
    Not till then, how much I owe.

    2 When I stand before the throne\
    Dressed in beauty not my own,\
    When I see Thee as Thou art,\
    Love Thee with unsinning heart;\
    Then, Lord, shall I fully know,\
    Not till then, how much I owe.

    3 E’en on earth, as through a glass\
    Darkly, let Thy glory pass;\
    Make forgiveness feel so sweet;\
    Make Thy Spirit,s help so meet:\
    E’en on earth, Lord, make me know\
    Something of how much I owe.

    432 9.8.9.8.D.

    1 My stubborn will at last hath yielded;\
    I would be Thine, and Thine alone,\
    And this the prayer my lips are bringing,\
    “Lord, let in me Thy will be done.”

    Sweet will of God, still fold me closer,\
    Till I am wholly lost in Thee;\
    Sweet will of God, still fold me closer,\
    Till I am wholly lost in Thee.

    2 I’m tired of sin, footsore and weary,

    The darksome path hath dreary grown,\
    But now a light has ris’n to cheer me;\
    I find in Thee my Star, my Sun.

    3 Thy precious Will, O conqu’ring Savior,

    Doth now embrace and compass me;

    All discords hushed, my peace a river,

    My soul a prisoned bird set free.

    4 Shut in with Thee, O Lord, forever,\
    My wayward feet no more to roam;\
    What pow’r from Thee my soul can sever?\
    The center of God’s will my home.

    433 8.7.8.7.D.

    1 All for Jesus! All for Jesus!

    All my being’s ransomed pow’rs;

    All my thoughts and words and doings,

    All my days and all my hours.

    All for Jesus! All for Jesus! All my days and all my hours.

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 Let my hands perform His bidding;

Let my feet run in His ways;

Let mine eyes see Jesus only;

Let my lips speak forth His praise.

All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Let my lips speak forth His praise.

3 Worldlings prize their gems of beauty,

Cling to gilded toys of dust;

Boast of wealth, and fame, and pleasure;

Only Jesus will I trust.

All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Only Jesus will I trust.

4 Since mine eyes were fixed on Jesus,

I’ve lost sight of all beside—

So enchained my spirit’s vision,

Looking at the Crucified.

All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Looking at the Crucified.

5 Oh, what wonder! how amazing!\
Jesus, glorious King of kings,\
Deigns to call me His beloved,\
Lets me rest beneath His wings.\
All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Resting now beneath His wings.

(Repeat last two lines of each stanza)

434 6.5.6.5.D. with chorus

1 Utterly abandoned To the Holy Ghost!

Seeking all His fulness At whatever cost;

Cutting all the shorelines, Launching in the deep

Of His mighty power, Strong to save and keep.

Utterly abandoned To the Lord of all,

Seeking all His fulness, Answ’ring His dear call.

2 Utterly abandoned To the Holy Ghost!

Oh! the sinking, sinking, Till the self is lost!

Till the vessel’s emptied Broken at His feet;

Waiting till His filling Makes the work complete.

3 Utterly abandoned To the will of God;

Walking in the pathway That my Master trod;

Leaving ease and pleasure; Making Him my’choice,

Waiting for His guidance, Listening for His voice.

4 Utterly abandoned! Through eternity;

My will never choosing, His it e’er shall be;

All my plans and longings Lost in His sweet will,

Having nothing, owning All things in Him still.

5 Utterly abandoned! ’Tis so sweet to be

Captive in His love-bonds, Yet so wondrous free;

Free from sin’s dominion, Free from doubt and fear,

Free from every worry, Burden, grief or care.

6 Utterly abandoned! Oh, the rest is sweet,

Waiting in His presence At His blessed feet;

Waiting for the filling Of the Host divine,

Who my inward parts shall Perfectly refine.

7 Lo! His Spirit fills me, With His presence sweet!

I, in Him, am blessed! I, in Him, complete!

Now the light within me Never shall grow dim

While abandoned ever, Living unto Him!

435 6.6.8.6.D.

1 Make me a captive, Lord,\
And then I shall be free;\
Force me to render up my sword,\
And I shall conq’ror be.\
I sink in life’s alarms\
When by myself I stand,\
Imprison me within Thine arms,\
And strong shall be my hand.

2 My heart is weak and poor

Until it master find:\
It has no spring of action sure,\
It varies with the wind;\
It cannot freely move\
Till Thou hast wrought its chain;\
Enslave it with Thy matchless love,\
And deathless it shall reign.

3 My power is faint and low

Till I have learned to serve:

It wants the needed fire to glow,

It wants the breeze to nerve;

It cannot drive the world

Until itself be driven;

Its flag can only be unfurled

When Thou shalt breathe from heaven.

4 My will is not my own\
Till Thou hast made it Thine;\
If it would reach the monarch’s throne\
It must its crown resign;\
It only stands unbent\
Amid the clashing strife,\
When on Thy bosom it has leant,\
And found in Thee its life.

436 8.7.8.7.D.

1 I’ve turned my back upon the world

With all its idle pleasures,

And set my heart on better things,

On higher, holier treasures;

No more its glitter and its glare,

And vanity shall blind me;

I’ve crossed the separating line,

And left the world behind me.

Far, far behind me!

Far, far behind me!

I’ve crossed the separating line,

And left the world behind me.

2 I’ve left the old sad life of sin,

Its follies all forsaken;

My standing place is now in Christ,

His holy vows I’ve taken;

Beneath the standard of the cross

The world henceforth shall find me;

I’ve passed in Christ from death to life,

And left the world behind me.

Far, far behind me!

Far, far behind me!

I’ve passed in Christ from death to life,

And left the world behind me.

3 My soul shall ne’er return again

Back to its former station,

For here alone is perfect peace,

And rest from condemnation;

I’ve made exchange of masters now,

The vows of glory bind me,

And once for all I’ve left the world,

Yes, left the world behind me.

Far, far behind me!

Far, far behind me!

And once for all I’ve left the world,

Yes, left the world behind me.

4 My choice is made forevermore,

I want no other Savior;

I ask no purer happiness

Than His sweet love and favor;

My heart is fixed on Jesus Christ,

No more the world shall blind me;

I’ve crossed the Red Sea of His death,

And left the world behind me.

Far, far behind me!

Far,’ far behind me!

I’ve crossed the Red Sea of His death,

And left the world behind me.

437 Irregular Meter

1 Down in the valley with my Savior I would go,

Where the flowers are blooming and the sweet waters flow;

Everywhere He leads me I would follow, follow on,

Walking in His footsteps till the crown be won.

Follow! follow! I would follow Jesus!

Anywhere, everywhere, I would follow on!

Follow! follow! I would follow Jesus!

Everywhere He leads me I would follow on!

2 Down in the valley with my Savior I would go,

Where the storms are sweeping and the dark waters flow;

With His hand to lead me I will never, never fear,

Dangers cannot fright me if my Lord is near.

3 Down in the valley, or upon the mountain steep,

Close beside my Savior would my heart ever keep;

He will lead me safely in the path that He has trod,

Up to where they gather in the rest of God.

438 8.8.8.8.

1 How shall I follow Him I serve?

How shall I copy Him I love?

Nor from those blessed footsteps swerve,

Which lead me to His seat above?

2 Privations, sorrows, bitter scorn,\
The life of toil, the mean abode,\
The faithless kiss, the crown of thorn—\
Are these the consecrated road?

3 Lord, should my path through suff’ring lie,\
Forbid it I should e’er repine;\
Still let me turn to Calvary,\
Nor heed my griefs, rememb’ring Thine.

4 O let me think how Thou didst leave\
Untasted every pure delight,\
To fast, to faint, to watch, to grieve,\
The toilsome day, the homeless night:

5 To faint, to grieve, to die for me!\
Thou camest, not Thyself to please;\
And, dear as earthly comforts be,\
Shall I not love Thee more than these?

# 439 10.10.10.10. with chorus Thomas O. Chisholm

1 Living for Jesus a life that is true,\
Striving to please Him in all that I do;\
Yielding allegiance, glad-hearted and free,\
This is the pathway of blessing for me.

O Jesus, Lord and Savior,

I give myself to Thee,

For Thou, in Thy atonement,

Didst give Thyself for me;

I own no other Master,

My heart shall be Thy throne,

My life I give, henceforth to live,

O Christ, for Thee alone.

2 Living for Jesus who died in my place,

Bearing on Calv’ry my sin and disgrace;

Such love constrains me to answer His call,

Follow His leading and give Him my all.

3 Living for Jesus wherever I am,

Doing each duty in His holy name;

Willing to suffer affliction and loss,

Deeming each trial a part of my cross.

4 Living for Jesus through earth’s little while,

My dearest treasure, the light of His smile;

Seeking the lost ones He died to redeem,

Bringing the weary to find rest in Him.

440 8.8.8.8.

1 My glorious Victor, Prince Divine,\
Clasp these surrendered hands in Thine;\
At length my will is all Thine own,\
Glad vassal of a Savior’s throne.

2 My Master, lead me to Thy door;

Pierce this now willing ear once more;\
Thy bonds are freedom; let me stay\
With Thee, to toil, endure, obey.

3 Yes, ear and hand, and thought and will,

Use all in Thy dear slav’ry still!

Self’s weary liberties I cast

Beneath Thy feet; there keep them fast.

4 Tread them still down; and then I know,\
These hands shall with Thy gifts o’erfiow;\
And pierced ears shall hear the tone\
Which tells me Thou and I are one.

441 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Jesus, I my cross have taken,\
All to leave and follow Thee;\
Destitute, despised, forsaken,\
Thou, from hence, my all shalt be.\
Perish every fond ambition,\
All I’ve sought, and hoped, and known;\
Yet how rich is my condition,\
God and Christ are still my own!

2 Let the world despise and leave me,

They have left my Savior, too;\
Human hearts and looks deceive me;\
Thou art not, like man, untrue;\
And, while Thou shalt smile upon me,\
God of wisdom, love, and might,\
Foes may hate, and friends disown me;\
Show Thy face, and all is bright.

3 Man may trouble and distress me,

‘Twill but drive me to Thy breast;

Life with trials hard may press me,

Christ will bring me sweeter rest.

O ’tis not in grief to harm me,

While Thy love is left to me;

O ‘twere not in joy to charm me,

Were that joy unmixed with Thee.

4 Haste thee on from grace to glory,

Armed by faith and winged by prayer;

God’s eternal day’s before thee,

God’s own hand shall guide thee there.

Soon shall close thy earthly mission,

Swift shall pass thy pilgrim days,

Hope shall change to glad fruition,

Faith to sight, and prayer to praise.

442 10.10.10.8.

1 I have decided to follow Jesus,

I have decided to follow Jesus,

I have decided to follow Jesus,

No turning back, no turning back.

2 The world behind me, the cross before me,

The world behind me, the cross before me,

The world behind me, the cross before me,

No turning back, no turning back.

3 Though none go with me, still I will follow.

Though none go with me, still I will follow.

Though none go with me, still I will follow,

No turning back, no turning back.

4 Where Jesus leads me, I’ll surely follow.

Where Jesus leads me, I’ll surely follow.

Where Jesus leads me, I’ll surely follow,

No turning back, no turning back.

5 Sing glory, glory and hallelujah.

Sing glory, glory and hallelujah.

Sing glory, glory and hallelujah,

No turning back, no turning back.

443 8.6.8.6.D.

1 No mortal tongue can e’er describe

The freedom of the soul,

When passed beyond all earthly bribe

To God’s complete control.

All things are his, yes, life, and death,

Things present or to come;

In Christ he draws in peace each breath,

In Christ he finds his home.

2 When such as we the King can choose,

To share with Him His throne,

’Tis passing strange that we refuse

To be our Lord’s alone.

O never speak of sacrifice!

A privilege untold

Is to be His at any price,

In Calv’ry’s hosts enrolled.

3 Arise! the holy bargain strike—

The fragment for the whole—

All men and all events alike

Must serve the ransomed soul.

All things are yours when you are His,

And He and you are one;

A boundless life in Him there is,

Whence doubt and fear are gone.

444 8.5.8.5.D.

1 Many crowd the Savior’s kingdom,\
Few receive His cross;\
Many seek His consolation,\
Few will suffer loss.\
For the dear sake of the Master,\
Counting all but dross,\
For the dear sake of the Master,\
Counting all but dross.

2 Many sitat Jesus’ table,

Few will fast with Him,\
When the sorrow-cup of anguish\
Trembles to the brim.\
Few watch with Him in the garden,\
Who have sung the hymn,\
Few watch with Him in the garden,\
Who have sung the hymn.

3 Many will confess His wisdom,

Few embrace His shame.

Many, should He smile upon them,

Will His praise proclaim;

Then, if for a while He leave them,

They desert His name,

Then, if for a while He leave them,

They desert His name.

4 But the souls who love Him truly,

Let woe come or bliss,

These will count their dearest hearts’ blood

Not their own, but His.

Savior, Thou who thus hast loved me,

Give me love like this,

Savior, Thou who thus hast loved me,

Give me love like this.

445 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 Am I a soldier of the Cross—

A follower of the Lamb?

And shall I fear to own His cause,

Or blush to speak His name?

In the name, the precious name,

Of Him who died for me,

Through grace I’ll win the promised crown,

Whate’er my cross may be.

2 Must I be carried to the skies

On flowery beds of ease,

While others fought to win the prize

And sailed through bloody seas?

3 Are there no foes for me to face?

Must I not stem the flood?

Is this vile world a friend to grace,

To help me on to God?

4 Since I must fight if I would reign,

Increase my courage, Lord!

I’ll bear the toil, endure the pain,

Supported by Thy Word.

446 6.5.6.5.D. with chorus.

1 Who is on the Lord’s side?

Who will serve the King?

Who will be His helpers,

Other lives to bring?

Who will leave the world’s side?

Who will face the foe?

Who is on the Lord’s side?

Who for Him will go?

By Thy grand redemption,

By Thy grace divine,

We are on the Lord’s side;

Savior, we are Thine.

2 Not for weight of glory,\
Not for crown and palm,\
Enter we the army,\
Raise the warrior psalm;\
But for love that claimeth\
Lives for whom He died;\
He whom Jesus nameth\
Must be on His side.

3 Jesus, Thou hast bought us,\
Not with gold or gem,\
But with Thine own life-blood,\
For Thy diadem;\
With Thy blessing filling\
Each who comes to Thee,\
Thou hast made us willing,\
Thou hast made us free.

4 Fierce may. be the conflict,

Strong may be the foe,

But the King’s own army

None can overthrow.

Round His standard ranging

Victory is secure,

For His truth unchanging

Makes the triumph sure.

5 Chosen to be soldiers\
In an alien land:\
Chosen, called, and faithful,\
For our Captain’s band;\
In the service royal\
Let us not grow cold;\
Let us be right loyal,\
Noble, true, and bold.

447 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 I am one with Thee, Lord Jesus,

One in spirit now with Thee;

All Thyself I now possess, Lord,

All Thou art now lives in me.

One with Thee, one with Thee,

One with Thee, one with Thee;

Day by day I share Thy riches,

Thou art everything to me.

2 Now I share Thy human life, Lord,

Filled with Thy humanity,

All of Thy complete obedience

Is available to me.

3 One with Thee in crucifixion,

On the cross I died in Thee;

I am dead unto the world, Lord,

And the world is dead to me.

4 One with Thee in resurrection,

Risen now to live in Thee,

With that life which is Thyself, Lord,

Now in me, Lord, even me.

5 One with Thee in Thine ascension,

In the heavens now with Thee;

Here a pilgrim and a stranger,

My true life is hid in Thee.

6 One with Thee in Thine enthronement,

Sharing Thine authority,

Even as I share Thy life, Lord,

I in Thee and Thou in me.

448 8.7.8.7.D.

1 One with Thee, Thou Son eternal,\
Joined by faith in spirit one,\
Share we in Thy death inclusive\
And Thy life, O God the Son.\
One with Thee, Thou Son beloved,\
Part of Thee become thru grace,\
Heirs with Thee of our one Father,\
We’re Thy Spirit’s dwelling place.

2 One with Thee, Thou Son incarnate,

Born with Thee, the Man of worth,\
We, the members of Thy body,\
Sojourn with Thee here on earth.\
One with Thee, Thou Son anointed,\
Sharing too the Spirit’s power,\
We in full cooperation\
Labor with Thee hour by hour.

3 One with Thee, Thou Son forsaken,

Judgment and the curse we’ve passed;

We to sin are dead forever,

Hell beneath our feet is cast.

One with Thee in resurrection,

Death can never us oppress;

Live we in Thy new creation,

Bearing fruits of righteousness.

4 One with Thee, Thou Son ascended,\
Seated with Thee on the throne,\
Thine authority we share and\
Rule with Thee, Thy rank our own.\
One with Thee, Thou Son returning,\
Glorified with Thee we’ll be,\
E’er to manifest Thy beauty,\
One with Thee eternally.

449 10.10.10.10.D.

1 Dying with Jesus, by death reckoned mine;

Living with Jesus a new life divine;

Looking to Jesus till glory doth shine,

Moment by moment, O Lord, I am Thine.

Moment by moment I’m kept in His love,

Moment by moment I’ve life from above;

Looking to Jesus till glory doth shine;

Moment by moment, O Lord, I am Thine.

2 Never a battle with wrong for the right,

Never a contest that He doth not fight;

Lifting above us His banner so white;

Moment by moment I’m kept in His sight.

3 Never a trial that He is not there,

Never a burden that He doth not bear;

Never a sorrow that He doth not share,

Moment by moment, I’m under His care.

4 Never a heartache, and never a groan,

Never a teardrop, and never a moan;

Never a danger but there on the throne

Moment by moment He thinks of His own.

5 Never a weakness that He doth not feel,\
Never a sickness that He cannot heal;\
Moment by moment, in woe or in weal,\
Jesus, my Savior, abides with me still.

450 9.8.9.9.5.

1 Buried with Christ, and raised with Him too;

What is there left for me to do?

Simply to cease from struggling and strife,

Simply to walk in newness of life.

Glory be to God!

2 Risen with Christ, my glorious Head,

Holiness now the pathway I tread,

Beautiful thought, while walking therein:

He that is dead is freed from sin.

Glory be to God!

3 Living with Christ, who dieth no more,

Following Christ, who goeth before;

I am from bondage utterly freed,

Reckoning self as dead indeed.

Glory be to God!

4 Living for Christ, my members I yield,

Servants to God, for evermore sealed,

Not under law, I’m now under grace,

Sin is dethroned, and Christ takes its place.

Glory be to God!

5 Growing in Christ; no more shall be named

Things of which now I’m truly ashamed,

Fruit unto holiness will I bear,

Life evermore, the end I shall share.

Glory be to God!

