# 405 7.7.7.7.D.

1.  Lord, reveal Thyself to me,

That the flesh I’ll fully know;

May Thy grace so work in me,

That in dust I’ll lowly bow.

How I long for victory,

Yet, thru all my life, how weak!

Evil things I cannot leave,

Nor can do the good I seek.

2.  Inwardly I want the Lord,\
But my conduct hateful is;\
Though I would, I cannot change,\
O what real bondage ’tis!\
By God’s law my sin’s revealed,\
But the law of sin doth bind;\
Though I struggle to be free,\
No release my soul can find.

3.  Many times I fall and rise,\
Oft resolve, and often fail;\
Craving vict’ry, I retreat,\
And my sad defeat bewail.\
Truly I am sold to sin\
And completely powerless;\
There’s no good within my flesh,\
All is dark and sinfulness.

4.  Now I know myself in part,\
And confess my helplessness;\
All my temperament is odd,\
All my life corrupted is.\
Subtle self I cannot trust,\
Nor to fleshly strength can cling;\
All my trust and all my hope\
Are in Jesus Christ my King.

5.  May the Cross put me to death

That on Christ I may rely;

May His Holy Spirit fill,

That Himself I may apply.

May His death so work in me

Daily deeper than before,

That my self may be destroyed

And His life thru me may pour.

6.  O how bitter is my case!

Who this wretched slave can free,

Who deliver from this death,

To a life of victory?

Jesus shed His blood for me,

Christ is now my holiness;

I receive Him as my life

And my portion measureless.

7.  Now I’m wholly sanctified,

Selfless, I obey His word;

Nevermore to feel ashamed

When I come before the Lord.

How transcendent is this life!

Grace thru faith He gives to me!

Praise the Lord, He heard my cry

And has made me wholly free.

