# 409 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1.  Thou hidden love of God, whose height,

hose depth unfathomed no man knows,

I see from far Thy beauteous light,

Inly I sigh for Thy repose;

My heart is pained, nor can it be

At rest, till it finds rest in Thee.

2.  Thy secret voice invites me still

The sweetness of Thy yoke to prove;

And fain I would: but though my will

Seems fixed, yet wide my passions rove;

Yet hindrances strew all the way;

I aim at Thee, yet from Thee stray.

3.  ’Tis mercy all, that Thou hast brought

My mind to seek her peace in Thee;

Yet, while I seek but find Thee not,

No peace my wand’ring soul shall see.

Oh, when shall all my wand’rings end,

And all my steps to Thee-ward tend!

4.  Is there a thing beneath the sun

That strives with Thee my heart to share?

Ah! tear it thence, and reign alone,

The Lord of every motion there.

Then shall my heart from earth be free,

When it has found repose in Thee.

5.  Oh, hide this self from me, that I

No more, but Christ in me may live;

My vile affections mortify,

Nor let one darling sin survive.

In all things nothing may I see,

Nothing desire or seek but Thee.

6.  O Lord, Thy sovereign aid impart,

To save me from low-thoughted care;

Chase this self-will through all my heart,

Through all its latent mazes there,

Make me Thy duteous child, that I

Ceaseless may Abba, Father, cry.

7.  Each moment draw from earth away

My heart which lowly waits Thy call;

Speak to my inmost soul and say,

“I am Thy Love, Thy God, Thy All.”

To feel Thy power, to hear Thy voice,

To taste Thy love, be all my choice.

