# 451 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, Thou hast shown the mystery,\
How on the Cross I died with Thee;\
I need no other pow’r or way\
That I may triumph day by day.

2 That cross of Thine is also mine,\
Into my life its light doth shine;\
When I believe I’m dead with Thee,\
The world has lost its pow’r o’er me.

3 Since I am crucified with Thee,

From sin and self I am set free;\
How can I still enjoy the world\
Or seek its vanities unfurled?

4 I take my place, dear Lord, with Thee

Upon the cross of Calvary.

Thy life and power then are mine,

Since Thou and I in oneness twine.

5 Since Thou didst come to slay the foe,

His work and power to overthrow,

I too can overcome in Thee

And prove Thy mighty pow’r in me.

6 Yet, for the vict’ry we rely

Upon the death which Thou didst die;\
We tread the path which Thou hast trod\
Until we reach the goal in God.

7 My death with Thee I now believe

And all its meaning would receive.

Thy death more deeply show to me,

That from my flesh I may be free.

8 I long to win as Thou hast won,

To reign with Thee when Thou dost come.\
If we the cross will gladly bear,\
Then in Thy glory we will share.

452 7.6.7.6.D.

1 Made free! Made free! O captive!

Bound by the law of sin,\
The law of life in Spirit\
Will quicken you within.\
And counting on the Spirit,\
His life shall now control\
The members of your body,\
The portals of your soul.

2 Made free! Made free in Jesus:

For crucified with Him,

From center to circumf’rence,

He breaks the power of sin.

No longer act in body

As if it had no “law”;

His “law of life” must govern

All that ran wild before.

3 Made free! Made free in Jesus:

Deep planted in His death,

He liberates His life pow’r,

And breathes His Spirit’s breath.

Then waxing strong in spirit,

With force of quickening life;

The soul and body governed,

Its members cease from strife!

4 Made free! Made free in Jesus:

Joined to the Risen One,

By conflict prayer you triumph,

And claim His victory won.

Freed with His glorious freedom,

Above the darkness rife;

For now the law of sin and death

Is conquered by His life.

453 6.6.11.6.6.10. Dennis Cleveland

Beautiful, beautiful,

Jesus is beautiful;

And Jesus makes beautiful things of my life.

Carefully touching me,

Causing my eyes to see;

Jesus makes beautiful things of my life.

454 8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, I was blind; I could not see\
In Thy marred visage any grace,\
But now the beauty of Thy face\
In radiant vision dawns on me.

2 Lord, I was deaf; I could not hear\
The thrilling music of Thy voice;\
But now I hear Thee and rejoice,\
And all Thine uttered words are dear!

3 Lord, I was dumb; I could not speak

The grace and glory of Thy name;\
But now, as touched with living flame,\
My lips Thine eager praises wake.

4 Lord, I was dead; I could not stir

My lifeless soul to come to Thee;

But now, since Thou hast quickened me,

I rise from sin’s dark sepulcher.

5 For Thou hast made the blind to see,\
The deaf to hear, the dumb to speak,\
The dead to live; and, lo, I break\
The chains of my captivity.

455 Irregular Meter

1 His banner over me is love,

His banner over me is love;

He brought me into His banqueting house,

And His banner over me is love.

Is love! Is love!

His banner over me is love;

He brought me into His banqueting house,

And His banner over me is love.

2 His fruit is sweet unto my taste,

His fruit is sweet unto my taste;

I’m feasting here in His banqueting house,

And His fruit is sweet unto my taste.

How sweet! How sweet!

His fruit is sweet unto my taste;

I’m feasting here in His banqueting house,

And His fruit is sweet unto my taste.

456 Irregular Meter

1 Nothing’s quite so precious

As Jesus in my spirit.

He takes away the care

And fills me with His peace.

He never leaves me,

E’en as the days grow weary.

His presence goes with me.

My soul delights to hide in His arms.

I call His name, “Lord Jesus, Help me in my weakness.”

So faithfully each day in me

He proves His life is so sufficient.

2 Nothing’s quite so precious

As Jesus in my spirit.

He tums my heart to Him,

To feast upon His life.

It’s nothing I do—

His mercy’s just upon me.

And God’s free gift of grace

Becomes an endless joy to me.

# 457 Irregular Meter

1 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

Thou hast won each love from me;

Who like Thee—so fair and comely?

Who like Thee—so sweet and lovely?

Matchless One, unrivaled beauty,

None can e’er compete with Thee!

2 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

Gladly will I hear Thy call;

Since Thy voice my heart hath entered,

I from all things could but sever;

Void are all my other seekings,

Every pride hath disappeared.

3 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

How can I still stubborn be?

At Thy feet cast all my hard’nings,

And return with songs and singings;

’Tis my love to be Thy bondslave,

’Tis my joy to Thee obey.

4 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

Thy way only will I choose;

Though in tears while I’m obeying,

Yet I would not change my standing;

All I long for is Thy pleasure,

And the peace Thy love would bring.

5 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,\
When Thy presence does depart,\
Seems the dawn has lost its traces,\
Hidden am my smiling faces;\
All I yearn for is Thy coming\
And Thy presence’ sweet embrace.

6 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

Can I tell it all to Thee?

Thou my love and satisfaction,

Thou my everlasting portion;

Thou art all that I desire,

Nothing else I would pursue.

7 Dear Lord Jesus, precious Jesus,

All I have I give to Thee;

Who like Thee—so fair and comely?

Who like Thee—so sweet and lovely?

Matchless One, unrivaled beauty,

None can e’er compete with Thee!

458 14.14.14.14. with chorus

1 To Jesus ev’ry day I find my heart is closer drawn;

He’s fairer than the glory of the gold and purple dawn;

He’s all my fancy pictures in its fairest dreams, and more;

Each day He grows still sweeter than He was the day before.

The half cannot be fancied this side the golden shore;

Oh, there He’ll be still sweeter than He ever was before.

2 His glory broke upon me when I saw Him from afar;

He’s fairer than the lily, brighter than the morning star;

He fills and satisfies my longing spirit o’er and o’er,

Each day He grows still sweeter than He was the day before.

3 My heart is sometimes heavy, but He comes with sweet relief;

He folds me to His bosom when I droop with blighting grief;

I love the Christ who all my burdens in His body bore;

Each day He grows still sweeter than He was the day before.

459 8.6.8.6.

1 Jesus, the very thought of Thee

With sweetness fills my breast;

But sweeter far Thy face to see,

And in Thy presence rest.

2 Nor voice can sing, nor heart can frame,

Nor can the memory find

A sweeter sound than Thy blest Name,

O Savior of mankind!

3 O Hope of every contrite heart,

O Joy of all the meek,

To those who fall, how kind Thou art!

How good to those who seek!

4 But what to those who find? Ah, this

Nor tongue nor pen can show;

The love of Jesus, what it is

None but His loved ones know.

5 O Jesus! light of all below!

Thou fount of life and fire!

Surpassing all the joys we know,

And all we can desire.

6 No other source have we but Thee,

Soul-thirst to satisfy.

Exhaustless spring! the waters free!

All other streams are dry.

7 Jesus, our only Joy be Thou,

As Thou our Prize wilt be;

Jesus, be Thou our Glory now,

And through eternity.

460 8.6.8.8.6.

1 I cannot breathe enough of Thee,

O gentle breeze of love;

More fragrant than the myrtle tree

The Henna-flower is to me,

The Balm of Heaven above.

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

(英詩無第二節)

3 I cannot gaze enough on Thee,

Thou Fairest of the Fair;

My heart is filled with ecstasy,

As in Thy face of radiancy

I see such beauty there.

4 I cannot yield enough to Thee,

My Savior, Master, Friend;

I do not wish to go out free,

But ever, always, willingly,

To serve Thee to the end.

5 I cannot sing enough of Thee,

The sweetest name on earth;

A note so full of melody

Comes from my heart so joyously,

And fills my soul with mirth.

6 I cannot speak enough of Thee,

I have so much to tell;

Thy heart it beats so tenderly

As Thou dost draw me close to Thee,

And whisper, “All is well.”

461 8.8.8.8.

1 Jesus, my Savior! Thou art mine,\
The Father’s gift of love divine;\
All Thou hast done, and all Thou art,\
Are now the portion of my heart.

2 Poor, feeble, wretched, as I am,

I now can glory in Thy name;\
Now cleansed in Thy most precious blood\
And made the righteousness of God.

3 All that Thou hast Thou hast for me,

All my fresh springs are hid in Thee;

In Thee I live; While I confess

I nothing am, yet all possess.

4 O Savior, teach me to abide

Close sheltered at Thy wounded side,

Each hour receiving “grace on grace,”

Until I see Thee face to face.

462 Irregular meter

1 In the Testament of old

See th’ acacia wood with gold;

Such humanity behold!

Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord!

2 Jesus is th’acacia wood—

What a man, so fine and good!

All corruption He withstood—

Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord!

3 Jesus, wisdom of God’s plan,

Son of God and Son of Man;

A new manhood He began—

Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord!

4 For since by the one came death,

By this man came living breath;

Man the Lord recovereth—

Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord!

5 Types and shadows to us show

Jesus is the man to know.

Now this man in us must grow—

Amen, Lord! Amen, Lord! Amen, Lord!

6 Lord, may Thy humanity

Permeate us thoroughly,

Drawing many men to Thee—

Amen, Lord! Amen, Lord! Amen, Lord!

463 8.7.8.7.8.7.

1 What a victory! What a triumph!

God Himself became a man,

Clothed Himself in human nature

To fulfill His mighty plan.

He through death destroyed the devil;

Risen now, the Son of Man!

2 Jesus by His human virtues

Did the subtle one arrest;

He as man withstood the tempter,

Fully passed through every test.

Now in spirit I can take Him,

All His virtues to possess.

3 In the Spirit of this Jesus

Is His human life so fine.

Human virtues have been added

To the Spirit all divine.

What abundance in this Spirit,

Rich supply for all mankind!

4 How mysterious! Yet how real!

Such a man now lives in me.

Into all my heart He’s spreading—

He, my human life, to be.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

I will praise unceasingly.

5 Oh, what wonder! Oh, how glorious!

God in flesh is manifest.

We the members of His Body

His humanity express.

For the building of God’s dwelling

We His human life possess.

464 Irregular Meter

1 Pow’r exceeding great God did demonstrate\
When He raised His Son from the dead.\
May this pow’r we see, with it strengthened be,\
And in resurrection life be led.

Power, power, resurrection power,\
Energize us mightily within!\
Power, power, resurrection power,\
Energize us in the inner man!

2 Pow’r exceeding high God did magnify

When He raised His Son far above all.\
Principalities, pow’rs, and majesties\
At the name of Jesus Christ must fall.

Power, power, all-transcending power,\
Elevate us mightily within!\
Power, power, all-transcending power,\
Elevate us in the inner man!

3 Pow’r surpassing too, all things to subdue

Has been given to Christ, pow’r complete.

We His Body are; so, hallelujah,

Everything must be beneath our feet!

Power, power, all-subduing power,

All-subjecting mightily within!

Power, power, all-subduing power,

All-subjecting to the inner man!

4 And the best of all, overruling all,\
O’er all to the church Christ is Head.\
Pow’r so glorious over all’s to us;\
To the highest place the church is led.

Power, power overruling power,\
Ruling over all, without, within!\
Power, power, overruling power,\
Ruling, reigning, through the inner man!

465 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Christ is now in resurrection,

From the old creation free.

See, He left behind His grave-clothes;

In the new creation, He.

Resurrection, Resurrection,

That is where we want to be;

Living in the new creation

Now and for eternity.

2 All His being e’en His body,

Now are in divinity.

He with God is fully mingled,

And our prototype is He!

3 We too need His resurrection

In our being to be wrought

That our spirit, soul, and body

Into God be fully brought.

4 Lord, we seek an extra portion

Of the resurrection life.

This our goal—out-resurrection

From the old creation rife.

5 Resurrected was our spirit

When we into Thee believed.

Now our soul needs resurrection

By the Spirit’s word received.

6 How our mind, will, and emotion

Need His rescue every hour!

Lord, uplift from our old being

All our inward parts with power.

7 Then the God of resurrection

To our body will give life,

And we’ll live in resurrection,

Every part conformed to Christ.

466 6.6.6.6.8.6.

1 Once I was dead in sin,

And hope within me died;

But now I’m dead to sin,

With Christ I’m crucified.

And can it be that “He loved me,

And gave Himself for me”?

2 O height I cannot reach!

O depth I cannot sound!

O love, O boundless love,

In my Redeemer found!

3 I live—and yet not I,

But Christ that lives in me,

Who from the law of sin

And death has made me free.

467 Irregular Meter

1 I serve a risen Savior;

He’s in the world today.\
I know that He is living,\
Whatever men may say.\
I see His hand of mercy;\
I hear His voice of cheer;\
And just the time I need Him\
He’s always near.

He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today!\
He walks with me and talks with\
me along life’s narrow way.\
He lives, He lives, salvation to impart!\
You ask me how I know He lives?\
He lives within my heart.

2 In all the world around me

I see His loving care,

And though my heart grows weary,

I never will despair;

I know that He is leading,

Through all the stormy blast;

The day of His ‘appearing

Will come at last.

3 Rejoice, rejoice, O Christian,

Lift up your voice and sing

Eternal hallelujahs

To Jesus Christ the King!

The Hope of all who seek Him,

The Help of all Who find,

None other is so loving,

So good and kind.

468 6.6.6.6.8.6.

1 Once far from God and dead in sin,

No light my heart could see;

But in God’s Word the light I found,

Now Christ liveth in me.

Christ liveth in me,

Christ liveth in me;

Oh! what a salvation this,

That Christ liveth in me.

2 As rays of light from yonder sun,

The flow’rs of earth set free,

So life and light and love come forth

From Christ living in me.

3 As lives the flow’r within the seed,

As in the cone the tree,

So, praise the Christ of truth and grace,

His Spirit dwelleth in me.

4 With longing all my heart is filled,

That like Him I may be,

As on the wondrous thought I dwell

That Christ liveth in me.

469 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Art thou hung’ring for the fulness

Of the blessing Christ doth give?

Longing now to \]earn the secret

Of the life He bids thee live?

In His word thine answer standeth,

“Christ who is our Life” it saith;

Open now thy heart, and trust Him,

There to dwell, henceforth, by faith.

2 Christ, the Lord’s Anointed, reigning

O’er the life He died to win,

Daily shall reveal more fully

His great power, without, within.

What thou never could’st accomplish

Shall His Spirit work through thee,

While thy soul this witness beareth,

’Tis not I, but Christ in me.

3 In Him dwelleth all God’s fulness,

In Him thou art made complete;

Rise, and claim thy heavenly birthright,

Kneeling at thy Father’s feet.

He will never disappoint thee,

Praise Him that the gift is thine;

Then go forth to live each moment

On sufficiency divine.

4 Lord, I come, and simply resting

On Thy faithful, changeless word,

I believe the blood doth cleanse me,

And that Christ is crowned Lord.

Grant henceforth a ceaseless outflow

Of Thy life and love through me;

Reaching those who sit in darkness,

Winning priceless souls to Thee.

470 Irregular Meter

1 There’s a Man in the glory

Whose Life is for me.

He’s pure and He’s holy,

Triumphant and free.

He’s wise and He’s loving,

How tender is He!

His Life in the glory,

My life must be.

(Repeat the last line of each stanza)

2 There’s a Man in the glory

Whose Life is for me.

He overcame Satan;

From bondage He’s free.

In Life He is reigning;

How kingly is He!

His Life in the glory,

My life must be.

3 There’s a Man in the glory

Whose Life is for me.

In Him is no sickness;

No weakness has He.

He’s strong and in vigor,

How bouyant is He!

His Life in the glory

My life may be.

4 There’s a Man in the glory

Whose Life is for me.

His peace is abiding;

How patient is He!

He’s joyful and radiant,

Expecting to see

His Life in the glory

Lived out in me.

471 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 This is my wonderful story,

Christ to my heart has come;

Jesus, the King of Glory,

Finds in my heart a home.

Christ in me, Christ in me,

Christ in me, O wonderful story,

Christ in me, Christ in me,

Christ in me, the hope of glory.

2 Was there e’er story so moving,

Story of love and pain;

Was there e’er Bridegroom so loving,

Seeking our hearts to gain.

3 I am so glad I received Him,

Jesus my heart’s dear King;

I who so often have grieved Him,

All to His feet would bring.

4 How can I ever be lonely,

How can I ever fall;

What can I want, if only

Christ is my all in all?

5 Now in His bosom confiding,

This my glad song shall be;

I am in Christ abiding,

And Christ abides in me.

472 8.7.8.7.8.8.7.

1 Sing praise to Christ Who lives in us,

The God of our salvation;

Who saves us by His life divine,

And not by regulation;

After we’ve worked — done all we can,

His life has power to change a man:

His life divine can change us.

2 He saves us to the uttermost

By His life-giving power;

Transfusing Himself into us,

He saves us hour by hour.

He saved the lost by coming in,

He’s saving now from more than sin:

He’s saving us to glory!

3 Our Lord was constituted priest

To be a real life-giver;

Life is the nature of this One

Who can from self deliver:

His life is indestructible,

By it He saves us to the full:

Praise God, He’s fully able!

4 His life is fully qualified

To bring us through to glory;

Were it not for His tested life,

’Twould be another story:

His life was fully tried on earth,

To crucifixion from His birth:

He passed through death and Hades.

5 He’s Pledged to save us to the full,

His life is operating; .

He’s doing everything for us

’Tis all for our perfecting;

Our life’s a failure at its best,

Only His life can stand the test:

His life brings full salvation!

6 He’s living now to intercede,

Continuing forever;

He undertakes into the age,

His priesthood changes never;

He always lives to intercede,

Such a High Priest is what we need:

He’s higher than the heavens.

7 Come forward now to God through Him,

Ne’er shrink back to destruction;

Come forward now to get.the life,

Which brings the proper function;

Come forward now the life to take;

By life His people us He’ll make,

And swallow death forever.

473 8.8.8.8. with chorus

1 We’re feeding on the living bread,

We’re drinking at the fountainhead;

And whoso drinketh, Jesus said,

Shall never, never thirst again.

What, never thirst again?

No, never thirst again!

What, never thirst again?

No, never thirst again!

And whoso drinketh, Jesus said,

Shall never, never thirst again!

2 We are feeding on the living bread,

Eating of the feast our Lord has spread,

And whoso eateth, Jesus said,

Shall hunger nevermore.

W hat, hunger nevermore?

Yes, hunger nevermore!

What, hunger nevermore?

Yes, hunger nevermore!

And whoso eateth, Jesus said,

Shall hunger nevermore.

3 We are breathing in the living air,

Breathing in the One whose life we share,

And whoso breatheth—now, fore’er—

Shall have the life of God.

What, have the life of God?

Yes, have the life of God!

What, have the life of God?

Yes, have the life of God!

And whoso breatheth—now, fore’er—

Shall have the life of God.

4 We are tasting of the living wine,

In spirit tasting life divine,

And whoso tasteth, everytime

Shall have the joy of God.

What, have the joy of God?

Yes, have the joy of God!

What, have the joy of God?

Yes, have the joy of God!

And whoso tasteth, everytime

Shall have the joy of God.

5 Christ is the resurrected King,

Who died and rose, our life to bring,

If you receive Him you will sing,

And live forevermore.

What, live forevermore?

Yes, live forevermore!

What, live forevermore?

Yes, live forevermore!

If you receive Him you will sing,

And live forevermore.

474 8.6.8.6.

1 The tree of life, how sweet the fruit,

With God as life complete.

I once was dead, but now I live,

Was starved, but now I eat.

2 ’Twas God that brought me to the tree,

With Christ Himself as meat;

How precious did that tree become

When I began to eat.

3 The Lord Himself is food to me,

He is my life supply;

He will my pure enjoyment be,

None else can satisfy.

4 I freely eat this living tree,

For eating is the way

To put God’s life inside of me,

To live by Him today.

475 6.5.6.5.D. with chorus

1 Once it was the blessing, Now it is the Lord;

Once it was the feeling, Now it is His Word;

Once His gift I wanted, Now, the Giver own;

Once I sought for healing, Now Himself alone.

All in all forever, Only Christ I’ll sing;

Everything is in Christ, And Christ is everything.

2 Once ’twas painful trying, Now ’tis perfect trust;

Once a half salvation, Now the uttermost;

Once ’twas ceaseless holding, Now He holds me fast;

Once ’twas constant drifting, Now my anchor’s cast.

3 Once ’twas busy planning, Now ’tis trustful prayer;

Once ’twas anxious caring, Now He has the care;

Once ’twas what I wanted, Now what Jesus says;

Once ’twas constant asking, Now ’tis ceaseless praise.

4 Once it was my working, His it hence shall be;

Once I tried to use Him, Now He uses me;

Once the pow’r I wanted, Now the Mighty One;

Once for self I labored, Now for Him alone.

5 Once I hoped in Jesus, Now I know He’s mine;

Once my lamps were dying, Now they brightly shine;

Once for death I waited, Now His coming hail;

And my hopes are anchored Safe within the veil.

476 Irregular Meter

1 We have seen Christ is reality:

But it’s not sufficient just to see:

He in our experience must be

Everything to us.

We in prayer behold Him face to face,

In the Word and meetings know His grace;

But in daily life, in every place,

What is He to us?

Hallelujah! By His light we see

Oh, how real, how full our Lord will be

If we’ll only turn to Him at every time,

in every day,

Every thing, in every way and—

Be specific for reality!

And be done with generality!

If we’ll just apply Him, we will see He’s everything to us.

2 Life is full of opportunities

Ordered by our Father’s hand: we see

Everything’s the best that it could be,

So let’s gain Christ!

Christ our content and reality

To shine out from us unceasingly:

He must have a way in you and me,

He must have a way.

Hallelujah! In the body we

Bear the death of Christ continually:

Thus His life comes forth for all to see as

The outer man is broken down,

The inner man is shining so that—

In these earthen vessels men can see

There’s the treasure of reality!

Thus the gospel’s glorious light will be

Shining out from us.

Not just doctrines and theology,

But the content of reality:

Christ as everything in you and me,

He’s everything to us!

477 Irregular Meter

1 My old person has been nullified;\
With my Lord upon the cross he died;\
Now in nothing shall he be applied;\
He’s dead to me.\
My new Person in my spirit dwells;\
Springing in me as a bubbling well;\
Flowing out until each part He fills With abundant life.

Christ, my Person, in my spirit lives;\
And my heart to Him I’d daily give;\
That my inner man could have a home\
And a place to settle down, yes,\
A place to call His own, and—\
There be my complete reality,\
There expressing all He is to me,\
Living in my heart abundantly\
As my Person real.

2 By this Person being formed in me,\
I’ll a member of His Body be,\
No more acting individually,\
But with the saints.\
More and more our Person He must be;\
That our natural personality\
Be eliminated thoroughly\
Till Christ is all.

Only Christ, our Person, must remain;\
From our aims, our goals we must refrain,\
Till the church be only Christ Himself\
Built up as the one new man,\
Thus fulfilling God’s great plan of—\
Mingling fully with the human race\
To obtain a proper dwelling place,\
‘Stablishing His kingdom’s rule and grace;\
Over all the earth.

Not Himself just individually,

But the church together corporately,

Taking Christ as all in all, to be

The full-grown, perfect man.

478 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

1 Lord, to know Thee as our Person,

Earnestly we seek and pray;

To experience Thy fulness

In a constant inner way.

Never longer only outward

Or with soulish thoughts obsessed,

But, O Lord, in realest contact

We by Thee would be possessed.

Lord, Thou art our Person,

In our inmost being,

May we constantly experience

This reality.

2 All the world is under darkness,

Driven by the fallen soul,

And the enemy designing

Does the soulish life control.

Such we were till God, through mercy,

Caused His Son to dwell in us;

Now we fully come to know Him

In His church so glorious.

3 Once we walked a soulish person,

Wandering in the wilderness,

Never knowing that our spirit

Craved God’s fullness to express;

At the moment Jesus entered

Instantly the whole was changed.

Now we’re people spirit-centered!

Hallelujah! Rearranged!

4 Now our spirit is our person—

What a glorious fact is this!

Christ Himself in us expressing

God’s intent and holiness.

Not the soul-life’s vain delusion,

But the spirit strengthened is;

Christ Himself is now our Person—

He is ours and we are His.

479 10.10.10.10.4.

1 My old man has been crucified with Him,

With all its foul corruption deep within;

And buried too its nature serpentine,

Completely finished — this great fact is mine,

I hold it fast.

2 But there’s a Person in my spirit now,

Born as a babe so small, so weak, so low;

Who by the Word’s pure milk will grow to be

The overcoming inner man in me

To gain my heart.

3 Christ as my Person must possess my heart

And be preeminent in every part.

The former owner died but haunts it still.

O Lord, move in; my mind, emotion, will

Now welcome Thee.

4 In spirit mingled, we are one,

O Lord, The human and divine in one accord;

Yet Thou must have a proper faculty

That all Thy glorious personality

May be expressed.

5 So, Lord, I give my heart to Thee today,

That it may be Thy home in every way,

A place for Thee to come and settle down,

And all Thy grand recovery work to crown

In one new man.

480 egular Meter

1 Oh, Christ in all His glory put on humanity

So He could be my Person, and live inside of me.

A man in life and being, He fully fits my case,

So all His glorious Person can me replace.

O Lord, O Lord, You are the man for me!

I take You as my Person, as my full identity.

O Lord, O Lord, subdue my every part,

And every moment, every place,

Make home in all my heart.

2 Oh, Christ became the Spirit to speak inside of me,

And as the speaking Spirit He speaks unceasingly.

His speaking is the water that washes me within,

Discharging all my oldness, impaiting Him.

O Lord, O Lord, speak all You want to me.

Your speaking is Your presence—I must have it constantly.

O Lord, O Lord, speak-wash my every part

And by this metabolic change, make home in all my heart.

3 Oh, Christ will come, the Bridegroom, for us, His glorious Bride,

By coming from within us the church is glorified.

His Person is the glory expanding now in us;

This glory is our Person—how glorious!

O Lord, O Lord, by Your economy

So flood us with Your glory, saturate us thoroughly.

Come out, come out, break forth in glory here,

And from the church, O glorious One, in glory soon appear.

481 8.6.8.6.8.8.8.6.

1 My heart is fixed, eternal God,

Fixed on Thee, fixed on Thee;\
And my immortal choice is made,\
Christ for me, Christ for me;\
He is my prophet, priest, and king,\
Who did for me salvation bring,\
And while I’ve breath I’mean to sing,\
Christ for me, Christ for me.

2 In Him I see the Godhead shine,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

He is the majesty divine,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

The Father’s well-beloved Son,

Co-partner of His royal throne,

Who bore the guilt of man alone,

Christ for me, Christ for me.

3 Let others boast of heaps of gold,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

His riches never can be told,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

Your gold will waste and wear away,

Your honors perish in a day;

My portion never can decay,

Christ for me, Christ for me.

4 In pining sickness, or in health,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

In deepest poverty or wealth,

Christ for me, Christ for me;

And in that all-important day,

When I the summons must obey,

And pass from this dark world away,

Christ for me, Christ for me.

482 6.4.6.4.6.6.6.4.

1 Fade, fade each earthly joy;\
Jesus is mine.\
Break every tender tie;\
Jesus is mine.\
Dark is the wilderness,\
Earth has no resting place,\
Jesus alone can bless;\
Jesus is mine.

2 Tempt not my soul away;\
Jesus is mine.\
Here would I ever stay;\
Jesus is mine.\
Perishing things of clay,\
Born but for one brief day,\
Pass from my heart away;\
Jesus is mine.

3 Farewell, ye dreams of night;

Jesus is mine.

Lost in this dawning bright;

Jesus is mine.

All that my soul has tried

Left but a dismal void;

Jesus has satisfied;

Jesus is mine.

4 Farewell, mortality;

Jesus is mine.

Welcome, eternity;

Jesus is mine.

Welcome, O Loved and Blest,

Wecome, sweet scenes of rest,

Welcome, my Savior’s breast;

Jesus is mine.

483 10.10.10.9. with chorus

1 Jesus, my Savior, is all things to me;\
Oh, what a wonderful Savior is He,\
Guiding, protecting, o’er life’s rolling sea,\
Mighty Deliv’rer—Jesus for me.

Jesus for me, Jesus for me,\
All the time everywhere, Jesus for me.

2 Jesus in sickness, and Jesus in health,

Jesus in poverty, comfort or wealth;

Sunshine or tempest, whatever it be,

He is my safety—Jesus for me.

3 He is my Refuge, my Rock, and my Tower,

He is my Fortress, my Strength and my Pow’r;

Life everlasting, my Daysman is He,

Blessed Redeemer—Jesus for me.

4 He is my Prophet, my Priest and my King,

He is my Bread of Life, Fountain and Spring;

Bright Sun of Righteousness, Daystar is He,

Horn of Salvation—Jesus for me.

5 Jesus in sorrow, in joy, or in pain,

Jesus my Treasure in loss or in gain;

Constant Companion where’er I may be,

Living or dying—Jesus for me.

484 8.6.8.6.8.8.8.6.

1 Whom have I, Lord, in heav’n but Thee?\
None but Thee! None but Thee!\
And this my song through life shall be:\
Christ for me! Christ for me!\
He hath for me the serpent trod,\
He hath redeemed me “by His blood,”\
And reconciled my soul to God:\
Christ for me! Christ for me!

2 I envy not the rich their joys:\
Christ for me! Christ for me!\
I covet not earth’s glitt’ring toys:\
Christ for me! Christ for me!\
Earth can no lasting bliss bestow,\
“Fading” is stamped on all below;\
Mine is a joy no end can know:\
Christ for me! Christ for me!

3 Though with the poor be cast my lot:

Christ for me! Christ for me!

“He knoweth best,” I murmur not:

Christ for me! Christ for me!

Though “vine” and “fig-tree” blight assail,

The “labor of the olive fail,”

And death o’er flock and herd prevail,

Christ for me! Christ for me!

4 Though I am now on hostile ground,

Christ for me! Christ for me!

And sin beset me all around,

Christ for me! Christ for me!

Let earth her fiercest battles wage,

And foes against my soul engage,

Strong in His strength I scorn their rage:

Christ for me! Christ for me!

5 And when my life draws to its close,

Christ for me! Christ for me!

Safe in His arms I shall repose,

Christ for me! Christ for me!

When sharpest pains my frame pervade,

And all the powers of nature fade,

Still will I sing through death’s cold shade;

Christ for me! Christ for me!

485 8.6.8.6.

1 I’ve found the One of peerless worth,

My heart doth sing for joy;

And sing I must, for Christ I have:

Oh, what a Christ have I!

2 Christ is my Prophet, Priest, and King;

My Prophet full of light;

My Priest that stands ‘twixt me and God,

My King that rules with might.

3 My Christ, He is the Lord of lords,

He is the King of kings;

He is the Sun of Righteousness,

With healing in His wings.

4 Christ is my meat, Christ is my drink,

My medicine and my health;

My peace, my strength, my joy, my crown,

My glory and my wealth.

5 Christ is my Father, and my Friend,

My Brother, and my Love;

My Head, my Hope, my Counsellor,

My Advocate above.

6 My Christ, He is the Heaven of heavens;

My Christ what shall I call?

My Christ is First, my Christ is Last,

My Christ is All in all.

486 8.6.8.6.8.8.

1 I thank Thee, Lord, that Thou hast shown,

And I begin to see,

What Thou canst be to all Thine own,

What they may be to Thee;

If only they will yield Thee all,

And trustingly obey Thy call.

2 How wonderful! I never knew

That I might trust Thee so;

That Thou wouldst be so much to me,

In all the way I go,

That every need Thou wouldst supply.

And all my longings satisfy.

3 I take Thee as my keeper now,

And I commit to Thee

My soul, my way, my works, my cause,

In Thy sole charge to be;

And my deposit, Thou, I know

Wilt guard secure from every foe.

4 I take Thee for my peace, O Lord.

My heart to keep and fill.

Thine own great calm, amid earth’s storms

Shall keep me always still;

And as Thy kingdom doth increase,

So shall Thine ever-deep’ning peace.

5 I take Thee as my wisdom too.

For wisdom’s sum Thou art:

Thou, who dost choose the foolish things.

Set me henceforth apart,

That I may speak and work for Thee

As Thou shalt work and speak in me.

6 I take Thee, Lord, to be my all.

Since all Thou art is mine;

I nothing have, and nothing am;

That nothing, Lord, is Thine.

Thou shalt be everything to me,

In all things my sufficiency.

487 8.6.8.6.D.

1 O Christ, in Thee my soul hath found,\
And found in Thee alone,\
The peace, the joy I sought so long,\
The bliss till now unknown.

Now none but Christ can satisfy,

None other name for me;

There’s love and life and lasting joy,

Lord Jesus, found in Thee.

2 I sighed for rest and happiness,

I yearned for them, not Thee;

But, while I passed my Savior by,

His love laid hold on me.

3 I tried the broken cisterns, Lord,

But, ah, the waters failed!

E’en as ! stooped to drink they fled,

And mocked me as I wailed.

4 The pleasures lost I sadly mourned,

But never wept for Thee,

Till grace the sightless eyes received,

Thy loveliness to see.

488 Irregular Meter

1 Jesus is all the world to me:\
My life, my joy, my all.\
He is my strength from day to day;\
Without Him I would fall.\
When I am sad, to Him I go;\
No other one can cheer me so.\
When I am sad, He makes me glad;\
He’s my Friend.

2 Jesus is all the world to me,

My Friend in trials sore.\
I go to Him for blessings, and\
He gives them o’er and o’er.\
He sends the sunshine and the rain;\
He sends the harvest’s golden grain:\
Sunshine and rain, harvest of grain—\
He’s my Friend.

3 Jesus is all the world to me,

And true to Him I’ll be.

Oh, how could I this Friend deny

When He’s so true to me?

Following Him I know I’m right;

He watches o’er me day and night.

Following Him by day and night,

He’s my Friend.

4 Jesus is all the world to me,

I want no better friend.

I trust Him now; I’ll trust Him when

Life’s fleeting days shall end.

Beautiful life with such a Friend:

Beautiful life that has no end!

Eternal life, eternal joy,

He’s my Friend.

489 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1 Lord, Thou hast made Thyself to me

A living, bright reality,

More present to faith’s vision keen

Than any earthly object seen;

More dear, more intimately nigh

Than e’en the closest earthly tie.

2 And Thou, blest vision of my soul,

Hast made my broken nature whole;

Hast purified my base desires,

And kindled passion’s holiest fires;

My nature Thou hast lifted up,

And filled me with a glorious hope.

3 Nearer and dearer still to me,

Thou living, loving Savior be;

Brighter the vision of Thy face,

More charming still Thy words of grace;

So, life shall be transformed to love,

Thy grace and mercy more to prove.

490 8.6.8.6.

1 The Lord’s my Shepherd, I’ll not want;

He makes me down to lie

In pastures green; He leadeth me

The quiet waters by.

2 My soul He doth restore again,

And me to walk doth make

Within the paths of righteousness,

E’en for His own name’s sake.

3 Yea, though I walk in death’s dark vale,

Yet will I fear no ill;

For Thou art with me, and Thy rod

And staff me comfort still.

4 My table Thou hast furnished

In presence of my foes;

My head Thou dost with oil anoint,

And my cup overflows.

5 Goodness and mercy all my life

Shall surely follow me,

And in God’s house forevermore

My dwelling-place shall be.

491 13.10.13.14. with chorus

1 In God’s green pastures feeding, by His cool waters lie;

Soft, in the evening walk my Lord and I.

All the sheep of His pastures fare so wondrously fine,

His sheep am I .

Waters cool, pastures green,

In the evening walk my Lord and I.

Dark the night,

Rough the way,

Step by step

my Lord and I.

2 Yes, the Lord is my Shepherd and no want shall I know;

He’ll guide and comfort me where’er I go.

On the mount, in the valley by His hand He will lead,

His sheep am I.

492 Irregular Meter Alfred B. Smith

Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me

All the days, all the days of my life;

Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me

All the days, all the days of my life.

And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever,

And I shall feast at the table spread for me;

Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me

All the days, all the days of my life.

493 8.7.8.7. (I)

1 The King of love my Shepherd is,\
Whose goodness faileth never;\
I nothing lack if I am His,\
And He is mine forever.

2 Where streams of living water flow\
My ransomed soul He leadeth,\
And, where the verdant pastures grow,\
With food celestial feedeth.

3 Perverse and foolish oft I strayed,\
But yet in love He sought me,\
And on His shoulder gently laid,\
And home rejoicing brought me.

4 In death’s dark vale I fear no ill

With Thee, dear Lord, beside me;\
Thy rod and staff my comfort still,\
Thy Cross before to guide me.

5 Thou spread’st a table in my sight;

Thy unction grace bestoweth;

And oh, what transport of delight

From Thy pure chalice floweth!

6 And so through all the length of days\
Thy goodness faileth never;\
Good Shepherd, may I sing Thy praise\
Within Thy house forever.

494 10.10.10.10. with chorus

1 Laboring on Jesus, the good land so real,

Plowing and planting and watering the field.

He yields the produce of reality,

God reaps a harvest of Jesus in me.

O Jesus! You’re God’s good land

For me to labor on!

I’ll bit by bit possess You

Until the whole is won!

With Canaan is God’s purpose,

The labor He will bless;

Lord Jesus, here I gain Yourself,

Your Person to possess.

2 Laboring on Jesus! My heart has been set,

Labor’s begun, and I have no regret,

For with my labor God’s sending the rain,

And all my labor on Christ yields much gain.

3 Laboring on Jesus this practical way—

Praying His Word in the spirit each day,

Foll’wing His living anointing within,

Built up with others, the church life to win.

4 Laboring on Jesus yields reality,

Meetings of fullness for all men to see;

There God and man are indeed satisfied,

And there God’s presence cannot be denied.

5 Labor on Jesus to have Him increased!

Then seek God’s dwelling and come to the feast!

There bring and offer your surplus to God,

There eat the riches, rejoice in the Lord!

495 Irregular Meter

1 Jesus, the all-inclusive land,

Is everything to me:

A Christ of brooks, of depths and streams,

And fountains bubbling free.

Springing from valleys and from hills,

Flowing till every part He fills,

He waters us—how glorious—

By His life!

2 Jesus is now the land of wheat—

Incarnate, crucified.

But resurrection life is He

By barley signified.

He is a land of figs and vines—

Blood of the grape, the cheering wine.

With such supplies He satisfies—

Christ our land!

3 O what a rich, abundant Christ:

Our pomegranate true,

The olive tree whose oil is now

Anointing us anew.

Rich milk and honey He doth bring,

Sweet, satisfying, nourishing.

Our Christ is such; He is so much!

What a Christ !

4 In our good land we eat the bread—

There is no scarcity.

We never lack one thing in Him,

So rich, so full is He.

He is a land so vast, immense;

He is complete in every sense.

How He expands—land of all lands—

In our heart!

5 Christ is a land of iron stones,

Whence comes authority.

We must dig out this solid Christ

To bind His enemy.

Then we must through the sufferings pass

To be refined as burnished brass.

With iron bind, as brass refined,

Is our need.

6 Lord, how we bless Thee for this land,

The all-inclusive Christ !

We’ve eaten Him, we’re filled with Him,

O how He has sufficed!

Teach us to labor constantly

Upon this vast reality;

This is our joy, this our employ—

Christ our land!

496 8.8.8.8.D. (A)

1 How tedious and tasteless the hours\
When Jesus no longer I see!\
Sweet prospects, sweet birds and sweet flow’rs,\
Have all lost their sweetness to me.\
The midsummer sun shines but dim,\
The fields strive in vain to look gay;\
But when I am happy in Him\
December’s as pleasant as May.

2 His name yields the richest perfume,

And sweeter than music His voice;\
His presence disperses my gloom,\
And makes all within me rejoice.\
I should, were He always thus nigh,\
Have nothing to wish or to fear;\
No mortal so happy as I;\
My summer would last all the year.

3 Content with beholding His face,

My all to His pleasure resigned;

No changes of season or place,

Would make any change in my mind.

While blessed with a sense of His love,

A palace a toy would appear;

And prisons would palaces prove,

If Jesus would dwell with me there.

4 My Lord, if indeed I am Thine,\
If Thou art my sun and my song,\
Say, why do I languish and pine?\
And why are my winters so long?\
Oh, drive these dark clouds from the sky,\
Thy soul-cheering presence restore;\
Or take me to Thee up on high,\
Where winter and clouds are no more.

497 11.10.11.10.

1 “Within the Veil”: be this, belov’d, thy portion,

Within the secret of thy Lord to dwell;

Beholding Him, until thy face His glory,

Thy life His love, thy lips His praise shall tell.

2 “Within the Veil,” for only as thou gazest

Upon the matchless beauty of His face,

Canst thou become a living revelation

Of His great heart of love, His untold grace.

3 “Within the Veil,” His fragrance poured upon thee,

Without the Veil, that fragrance shed abroad;

“Within the Veil,” His hand shall tune the music

Which sounds on earth the praises of Thy Lord.

4 “Within the Veil,” thy spirit deeply anchored,

Thou walkest calm above a world of strife;

“Within the Veil,” thy soul with Him united,

Shall live on earth His resurrection life.

498 8.4.8.4.8.8.8.4.

1 Through Thy precious body broken—\
Inside the veil;\
Oh! what words to sinners spoken—\
Inside the veil.\
Precious as the blood that bought us;\
Perfect, as the love that sought us;\
Holy, as the Lamb that brought us—\
Inside the veil.

2 When we see Thy love unshaken—

Outside the camp.

Scorned by man, by God forsaken—

Outside the camp.

Thy loved cross alone can charm us;

Shame need now no more alarm us;

Glad we follow, nought can harm us—

Outside the camp.

3 Lamb of God, through Thee we enter—

Inside the veil.

Cleansed by Thee, we boldly venture—

Inside the veil.

Not a stain; a new creation:

Ours is such a full salvation;

Low we bow in adoration—

Inside the veil.

4 Unto Thee, the homeless stranger—

Outside the camp,

Forth we hasten, fear no danger—

Outside the camp.

Thy reproach, far richer treasure

Than all Egypt’s boasted pleasure;

Drawn by love that knows no measure—

Outside the camp.

5 Soon Thy saints shall all be gathered—

Inside the veil.

All with Thee—no more be scattered—

Inside the veil.

Nought from Thee, our hearts shall sever;

We shall see Thee; grieve Thee never;

“Praise the Lamb!” shall sound forever—

Inside the veil.

499 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Marvel not that Christ in glory

All my inmost heart hath won;

Not a star to cheer my darkness,

But a light beyond the sun.

All below lies dark and shadowed,

Nothing here to claim my heart,

Save the lonely track of sorrow

Where of old He walked apart.

2 Others in the earthly sunshine

Wearily may journey on,

I have seen a light from heaven

Past the brightness of the sun—

Light that knows no cloud, no waning,

Light wherein I see His face,

All His love’s uncounted treasures,

All the riches of His grace:

3 All the wonders of His glory,

Deeper wonders of His love—

How for me He won, He keepeth

That high standing all above;

Not a glimpse—the veil uplifted—

But within the veil to dwell,

Gazing on His face forever,

Hearing words unspeakable.

4 I have seen the face of Jesus—

Tell me not of aught beside;

I have heard the voice of Jesus—

All my soul is satisfied.

In the radiance of the glory

First I saw His blessed face,

And forever shall that glory

Be my home, my dwelling-place.

500 Irregular Meter

1 I’ve believed the true report,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!\
I have passed the outer court,\
O glory be to God!\
I am all on Jesus’ side,\
On the altar sanctified,\
To the world and sin I’ve died,\
Hallelujah to the Lamb!

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!\
I have passed the riven veil,\
Here the glories never fail,\
Hallelujah! Hallelujah!\
I am living in the presence of the King.

2 I’m a king and priest to God,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!

By the cleansing of the blood,

O glory be to God!

By the Spirit’s pow’r and light,

I am living day and night,

In the holiest place so bright,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!

3 I have passed the outer veil,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!

Which did once God’s light conceal,

O glory be to God!

But the blood has brought me in

To God’s holiness so clean,

Where there’s death to self and sin,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!

4 I’m within the holiest pale,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!

I have passed the inner veil,

O glory be to God!

I am sanctified to God

By the power of the blood,

Now the Lord is my abode,

Hallelujah to the Lamb!
