501 7.6.8.6.8.6.7.4.

1 I have a Friend so precious,

So very dear to me,

He loves me with such tender love,

He loves so faithfully;

I could not live apart from Him,

I love to feel Him nigh,

And so we dwell together,

My Lord and I.

2 Sometimes I’m faint and weary,

He knows that I am weak,

And as He bids me lean on Him,

His help I gladly seek;

He leads me in the paths of light,

Beneath a sunny sky,

And so we walk together,

My Lord and I.

3 He knows how much I love Him,

He knows I love Him well;

But with what love He loveth me

My tongue can never tell;

It is an everlasting love

In ever rich supply,

And so we love each other,

My Lord and I.

4 I tell Him all my sorrows,

I tell Him all my joys,

I tell Him all that pleases me,

I tell Him what annoys;

He tells me what I ought to do,

He tells me how to try,

And so we talk together,

My Lord and I.

5 He knows how I am longing

Some weary soul to win,

And so He bids me go and speak

The loving Word for Him;

He bids me tell His wondrous love,

And why He came to die,

And so we work together,

My Lord and I.

6 He tells me of His Kingdom,

It is not far away;

And oh, His heart is longing

To take me there some day.

Immortal bliss is waiting

And joys that never die:

Soon there we’ll reign together,

My Lord and I.

502 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Savior, I by faith am touching\
Thee, the source of every good;\
Virtue now, by faith am claiming,\
Through the cleansing of Thy blood.

Touching Thee, new life is glowing\
By Thy Spirit’s burning flame;\
Cleansing, purging, Spirit filling,\
Glory to Thy Holy Name!

2 Touching Thee in faith, I take Thee

In Thy riches full and free;\
All I am I open to Thee,\
All Thou art Thou giv’st to me.

3 Touching now Thine outstretched scepter,

O most mighty King of kings;

Of Thy fulness now receiving,

High I mount on eagle wings.

4 Grace and virtue, strength and wisdom,\
All my need, by Thee supplied;\
Keep me touching, keep me claiming,\
Keep me ever at Thy side.

503 8.7.8.7.

1 Thou hast said Thou art the Vine, Lord,\
And that I’m a branch in Thee,\
But I do not know the reason\
Why I should so barren be.

2 Bearing fruit is my deep longing,

More Thy life to manifest,\
To Thy throne to bring more glory,\
That Thy will may be expressed.

3 But I fail to understand, Lord,

What it means—“abide in me”

For the more I seek “abiding,”

More I feel I’m not in Thee.

4 How I feel I’m not abiding;

Though I pray and strongly will,

Yet from me Thou seemest distant

And my life is barren still.

5 Yet Thou art the Vine, Thou saidst it.

And I am a branch in Thee;

When I take Thee as my Savior,

Then this fact is wrought in me.

6 Now I’m in Thee and I need not

Seek into Thyself to come,

For I’m joined to Thee already,

With Thy flesh and bones I’m one.

7 Not to “go in” is the secret,

But that I’m “already in”!

That I ne’er may leave I’d ask Thee.

Not how I may get within.

8 I am in, already in Thee!

What a place to which I’m brought!\
There’s no need for prayer or struggling,\
God Himself the work has wrought.

9 Since I’m in, why ask to enter;

O how ignorant I’ve been!

Now with praise and much rejoicing

For Thy Word, I dwell therein.

10 Now in Thee I rest completely,

With myself I gladly part;

Thou art life and Thou art power,

All in all to me Thou art.

504 10.10.10.10.

1 Abide in Thee! in that deep love of Thine,

My Jesus, Lord, Thou Lamb of God divine,

Down, closely down, as living branch with tree,

I would abide, my Lord, my Christ, in Thee.

2 Abide in Thee! my Savior God, I know

How love of Thine so vast in me may flow,

My empty vessel, running o’er with joy,

Must overflow to Thee without alloy.

3 Abide in Thee! nor doubt, nor self, nor sin,

Can e’er prevail with Thy blest life within;

Joined to Thyself, communing deep, my soul

Knows naught besides its motions to control.

4 Abide in Thee! ’tis thus I only know

The secrets of Thy mind e’en while below—

All joy and peace, and knowledge of Thy word,

All pow’r and fruit, and service for the Lord.

505 Irregular Meter

You are the vine, We are the branches,

Keep us abiding in You;

You are the vine, We are the branches

Keep us abiding in You.

And we’ll go In Your love

And we’ll go In Your name,

That the world Will surely know

hat You have power to heal and to save.

506 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 He’s the vine and we’re the branches,

We should e’er abide in Him,

And let Him abide within us

As the flow of life within.

In the vine, in the vine,

In the vine, in the vine,

We would know Thee, Lord, more deeply,

E’er abiding in the vine.

2 As we hear His instant speaking,

He’s the rich indwelling Word;

To abide we must be faithful

To the speaking that we’ve heard.

3 For ’tis here we know abiding

In the real and deepest way;

If we love our Lord completely,

We would do whate’er He’d say.

4 Then His love abides within us,

And in love abiding, we

Know the joy of life-communion,

Full and perfect harmony.

5 Oh, how precious this abiding,

Oh, how intimate and sweet;

As the fruit of life is added,

And our joy is made complete.

507 Irregular Meter

1 We’ve found the secret of living,

We’ve seen the vision divine:

We are of God in Christ Jesus,

We’re abiding, abiding in the vine.

Abiding in the vine,

Abiding in the vine,

All the riches of God’s life are mine!

Praise God, He put us here,

Never to leave; oh, we’re—Abiding, abiding in the vine.

2 No more in vain need we struggle,

Trying the way in to find.

Praise God—we’re in Him already,

Hallelujah, abiding in the vine.

3 In us, the ointment is moving,

’Tis the anointing divine;

God’s precious essence bestowing,

While abiding, abiding in the vine.

4 Now in the life-flow we’re living,

O how the light in us shines!

Both God and man are at home now

By the mutual abiding in the vine.

508 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 Under His wings I am safely abiding;

Though the night deepens and tempests are wild,

Still I can trust Him, I know He will keep me;

He has redeemed me, and I am His child.

Under His wings, under His wings,

Who from His love can sever?

Under His wings my soul shall abide,

Safely abide forever.

2 Under His wings—what a refuge in sorrow!

How the heart yearningly turns to His rest!

Often when earth has no balm for my healing,

There I find comfort, and there I am blest.

3 Under His wings—oh, what precious enjoyment!

There will I hide till life’s trials are o’er;

Sheltered, protected, no evil can harm me;

Resting in Jesus I’m safe evermore.

509 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

1 I have learned the wondrous secret

Of abiding in the Lord;

I have tasted life’s pure fountain,

I am drinking of His word;

I have found the strength and sweetness

Of abiding ‘neath the blood;

I have lost myself in Jesus,

I am sinking into God.

I’m abiding in the Lord

And confiding in His word;

I am hiding in the bosom of His love.

Yes, abiding in the Lord

And confiding in His word,

I am hiding in the bosom of His love.

2 I am crucified with Jesus,

And He lives and dwells with me;

I have ceased from all my struggling,

’Tis no longer I, but He.

All my will is yielding to Him,

And His Spirit reigns within;

And His precious blood each moment

Keeps me cleansed and free from sin.

3 All my sicknesses I bring Him,

And He bears them all away;

All my fears and griefs I tell Him,

All my cares from day to day,

All my strength I draw from Jesus,

By His breath I live and move;

E’en His very mind He gives me,

And His faith, and life, and love.

4 For my words I take His wisdom,

For my works His Spirit’s power;

For my ways His ceaseless presence

Guards and guides me every hour.

Of my heart, He is the portion,

Of my joy the boundless spring;

Savior, Sanctifier, Healer,

Glorious Lord, and coming King.

510 8.8.8.8. with chorus

1 The Lord’s our Rock, in Him we hide,

A shelter in the time of storm;

Secure whatever ill betide,

A shelter in the time of storm.

Oh, Jesus is a Rock in a weary land!

A weary land, a weary land;

Oh, Jesus is a Rock in a weary land!

A shelter in the time of storm.

2 A shade by day, defense by night,

A shelter in the time of storm;

No fears alarm, no foes affright,

A shelter in the time of storm.

3 The raging storms may round us beat,

A shelter in the time of storm;

We’ll never leave our safe retreat,

A shelter in the time of storm.

4 O Rock divine, O Refuge dear,

A shelter in the time of storm;

Be Thou our helper ever near,

A shelter in the time of storm.

511 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 Oh, safe to the Rock that is higher than I,

My soul in its conflicts and sorrows would fly,

So sinful, so weary, Thine, Thine would I be,

Thou blest Rock of Ages, I’m hiding in Thee.

Hiding in Thee, Hiding in Thee,

Thou blest Rock of Ages, I’m hiding in Thee.

2 In the calm of the noontide, in sorrow’s lone hour,

In times when temptation casts o’er me its power;

In the tempests of life, on its wide, heaving sea,

Thou blest Rock of Ages, I’m hiding in Thee.

3 How oft in the conflict, when pressed by the foe,

I have fled to my Refuge and breathed out my woe;

How often, when trials like sea-billows roll,

Have I hidden in Thee, O Thou Rock of my soul.

512 8.7.8.7.D.

1 ’Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus,

Just to take Him at His word;

Just to rest upon His promise;

Just to know, Thus saith the Lord.

Jesus, Jesus, how I trust Him,

How I’ve proved Him o’er and o’er,

Jesus, Jesus, Precious Jesus!

O for grace to trust Him more.

2 O how sweet to trust in Jesus,

Just to trust His cleansing blood;

Just in simple faith to plunge me,

‘Neath the healing, cleansing flood.

3 Yes, ’tis sweet to trust in Jesus,

Just from sin and self to cease;

Just from Jesus simply taking

Life, and rest, and joy, and peace.

4 I’m so glad I learned to trust Thee,

Precious Jesus, Savior, Friend;

And I know that Thou art with me,

Wilt be with me to the end.

513 7.7.7.7.D.

1 Simply trusting every day;

Trusting through a stormy way;

Even when my faith is small,

Trusting Jesus, that is all.

Trusting as the moments fly,

Trusting as the days go by,

Trusting Him, whate’er befall,

Trusting Jesus, that is all.

2 Brightly doth His Spirit shine

Into this poor heart of mine;

While He leads I cannot fall,

Trusting Jesus, that is all.

3 Singing if my way be clear,

Praying if the path be drear;

If in danger, for Him call,

Trusting Jesus, that is all.

4 Trusting Him while life shall last,

Trusting Him till earth is past,

Till His gracious advent call,

Trusting Jesus, that is all.

514 8.7.8.7.7.7.

1 Thou whose name is called Jesus,

Risen Lord of life and pow’r,

Oh, it is so sweet to trust Thee,

Every day and every hour;

Of Thy wondrous grace I sing,

Savior, Counsellor, and King.

2 Thou canst keep my feet from falling,

Even my poor wayward feet;

Thou who dost present me faultless

In Thee—Righteousness complete;

Jesus, Lord, in knowing Thee,

Oh, what strength and victory.

3 All the sin in me, my Savior,

Thou canst conquer and subdue;

With Thy sanctifying power

Permeate my spirit through;

Let Thy government increase,

Risen, crowned, Prince of Peace.

4 Thou canst keep me upward looking,

Ever upward in Thy face;

Thou canst make me stand, upholden

By the greatness of Thy grace;

Every promise of Thy word

Now I claim from Thee, dear Lord.

5 Oh! what joy to trust Thee, Jesus,

Mighty Victor o’er the grave,

And to learn amid earth’s shadows

Thine unceasing power to save!

Only those who prove Thee know

What the grace Thou dost bestow.

6 Make my life a bright outshining

Of Thy life, that all may see

Thine own resurrection power

Mightily put forth in me;

Ever let my heart become

Yet more consciously Thy home.

515 8.6.8.6.

1 I know that my Redeemer lives

And ever prays for me;

A token of His love He gives,

A pledge of liberty.

2 I know that my Redeemer lives,

A quick’ning Spirit He;

I know eternal life He gives—

Amazing grace—to me.

3 I find Him lifting up my head;

He brings salvation near;

His presence makes me free indeed,

And He will soon appear.

4 He wills that I should holy be:

What can withstand His will?

The counsel of His grace in me

He surely shall fulfill.

5 Jesus, I hang upon Thy word:

I steadfastly believe

Thou wilt return and claim me, Lord,

And to Thyself receive.

516 10.10.10.10.

1 I take Thy promise, Lord, in all its length,\
And breadth and fulness, as my daily strength;\
Into life’s future fearless I may gaze,\
For, Savior, Thou art with me all the days.

2 Days may be coming fraught with loss and change,

New scenes surround my life and fancies strange;\
I thank Thee that no day can ever break,\
Savior, when Thou wilt leave me or forsake.

3 There may be days of darkness and distress,

When sin has power to tempt, and care to press,

Yet in the darkest day I will not fear,

For, ‘mid the shadows, Thou wilt still be near.

4 Days there may be of joy and.deep delight,

When earth seems fairest, and her skies most bright,

Then draw me closer to Thee, lest I rest

Elsewhere, my Savior, than upon Thy breast.

5 And all the other days that make my life,

Marked by no special joy or grief or strife,

Days filled with quiet duties, trivial care,

Burdens too small for other hearts to share;

6 Spend Thou these days with me, all shall be Thine,

So shall the darkest hour with glory shine.

Then when these earthly years have passed away,

Let me be with Thee in the perfect day.

517 8.8.8.8.8.8.

1 All things are possible to him

That can in Jesus’ name-believe;

Lord, I no more Thy name blaspheme,

Thy truth I lovingly receive.

I can, I do believe in Thee;

All things are possible to me.

2 ’Twas most impossible of all

That here sin’s reign in me should cease;

Yet shall it be, I know it shall;

Jesus, I trust Thy faithfulness.

If nothing is too hard for Thee,

All things are possible to me.

3 Though earth and hell the Word gainsay,

The Word of God shall never fail;

The Lord can break sin’s iron sway;

’Tis certain, though impossible.

The thing impossible shall be,

All things are possible to me.

4 All things are possible to God;

To Christ, the power of God in man;

To me when I am all renewed,

In Christ am fully formed again,

And from the reign of sin set free,

All things are possible to me.

5 All things are possible to God;

To Christ, the power of God in me;

Now shed Thy mighty Self abroad,

Let me no longer live, but Thee;

Give me this hour in Thee to prove

The sweet omnipotence of love.

518 8.7.8.5.D.

1 Jesus! I am resting, resting

In the joy of what Thou art;

I am finding out the greatness

Of Thy loving heart.

Thou hast bid me gaze upon Thee,

And Thy beauty fills my soul,

For, by Thy transforming power,

Thou hast made me whole.

Jesus! I am resting, resting

In the joy of what Thou art;

I am finding out the greatness

Of Thy loving heart.

2 Oh, how great Thy loving kindness,

Vaster, broader than the sea:

Oh, how marvelous Thy goodness,

Lavished all on me!

Yes, I rest in Thee, Beloved,

Know what wealth of grace is Thine,

Know Thy certainty of promise,

And have made it mine.

3 Simply trusting Thee, Lord Jesus,

I behold Thee as Thou art,

And Thy love, so pure, so changeless,

Satisfies my heart,

Satisfies its deepest longings,

Meets, supplies its every need,

Compasseth me round with blessings,

Thine is love indeed.

4 Ever lift Thy face upon me,

As I work and wait for Thee;

Resting ‘neath Thy smile, Lord Jesus,

Earth’s dark shadows flee.

Brightness of my Father’s glory,

Sunshine of my Father’s face,

Keep me ever trusting, resting,

Fill me with Thy grace.

519 8.8.8.8.

1 My will is weak, my strength is frail,

And all my hope is nearly gone;

I can but trust Thy working true

To gently hold and lead me on.

2 I’ve tried my best, but still have failed,

E’en as before I’ve failed and erred;

Thy patience is my only trust

To hold and keep me to Thy word.

3 Whene’er my heart is lifted up,

How very near I am to fall;

I dare not do, I dare not think,

I need Thyself in great or small.

4 Thou art my Savior, strength and stay,

O Lord, I come to seek Thy face;

Though I’m the weakest of the weak,

My strength is nothing but Thy grace.

520 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 On Thee my heart is resting,

Ah, this is rest indeed:\
What else, Almighty Savior,\
Can a poor sinner need?\
Thy light is all my wisdom,\
Thy love is all my stay;\
Thy coming back in glory,\
Draws nearer every day.

On Thee my heart is resting,\
Ah, this is rest indeed:\
What else, Almighty Savior,\
Can a poor sinner need?

2 My guilt is great, but greater

The mercy Thou dost give;

Thyself, a spotless Off’ring,

Hast died that I should live.

With Thee, my soul unfettered

Has risen from the dust;

Thy blood is all my treasure,

Thy word is all my trust.

3 Through me, Thou gentle Master,

Thy purposes fulfil;

I yield myself forever

To Thy most holy will.

What though I be but weakness?

My strength is not in me;

The poorest of Thy people

Has all things, having Thee.

4 When clouds are darkest round me,

Thou, Lord, art then most near,

My drooping faith to quicken,

My weary soul to cheer.

Safe nestling in Thy bosom,

I gaze upon Thy face;

In vain my foes would drive me

From Thee, my hiding-place.

5 ’Tis Thou hast made me happy,

’Tis Thou hast set me free;

To whom shall I give glory

Forever, but to Thee?

Of earthly love and blessing

Should every stream run dry,

Thy grace shall still be with me,

Thy grace, to live and die.

521 6.6.9.6.6.9. with chorus

1 When we walk with the Lord

In the light of His Word,

What a glory He sheds on our way;

While we do His good will,

He abides with us still,

And with all who will trust and obey.

Trust and obey,

For there’s no other way

To be happy in Jesus,

But to trust and obey.

2 Not a shadow can rise,

Not a cloud in the skies,

But His smile quickly drives it away;

Not a doubt or a fear,

Not a sigh or a tear,

Can abide while we trust and obey.

3 Not a burden we bear,

Not a sorrow we share,

But our toil He doth richly repay;

Not a grief or a loss,

Not a frown or a cross,

But is blest if we trust and obey.

4 But we never can prove

The delights of His love,

Until all on the altar we lay;

For the favor He shows,

And the joy He bestows,

Are for them who will trust and obey.

5 Then in fellowship sweet

We will sit at His feet,

Or we’ll walk by His side in the way;

What He says we will do;

Where He sends, we will go,

Never fear, only trust and obey.

522 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 Anywhere with Jesus I can safely go,

Anywhere He leads me in this world below,

Anywhere without Him, dearest joys would fade;

Anywhere with Jesus I am not afraid.

Anywhere! Anywhere! Fear I cannot know.

Anywhere with Jesus I can safely go.

2 Anywhere with Jesus I am not alone,

Other friends may fail me, He is still my own.

Though His hand may lead me over dreary ways,

Anywhere with Jesus is a house of praise.

3 Anywhere with Jesus I can go to sleep,

When the darkling shadows round about me creep;

Knowing I shall waken never more to roam,

Anywhere with Jesus will be home, sweet home.

523 8.8.8.8.D.

1 He leadeth me! O blessed thought,

O words with heav’nly comfort fraught;

Whate’er I do, where’er I be,

Still ’tis Christ’s hand that leadeth me.

He leadeth me! He leadeth me!

By His own hand He leadeth me;

His faithful follower I would be,

For by His hand He leadeth me.

2 Sometimes ‘mid scenes of deepest gloom,

Sometimes where Eden’s bowers bloom,

By waters still, o’er troubled sea,

Still ’tis His hand that leadeth me.

3 Lord, I would clasp Thy hand in mine,

Nor ever murmur or repine;

Content, whatever lot I see,

Since it is Thou that leadest me.

4 And when my task on earth is done,

When, by Thy grace, the vict’ry’s won,

E’en death’s cold wave I will not flee,

Since Thou in triumph leadest me.

524 8.7.8.7.D.

1 God in heaven hath a treasure,\
Riches none may count or tell;\
Hath a deep eternal pleasure,\
Christ the Son, He loveth well.\
God hath here on earth a treasure,\
None but He its price may know—\
Deep, unfathomable pleasure,\
Christ revealed in saints below.

2 God in tongues of fire descending,\
Chosen vessels thus to fill\
With the treasure never ending,\
Ever spent—unfailing still.\
God’s own hand the vessel filling\
From the glory far above,\
Longing hearts forever stilling\
With the riches of His love.

3 Thus though worn, and tried, and tempted,

Glorious calling, saint, is thine;

Let the Lord but find thee emptied,

Living branch in Christ the Vine!

Vessels of the world’s despising,

Vessels weak and poor and base,

Bearing wealth God’s heart is prizing,

Glory from Christ’s blessed face.

4 Oh to be but emptier, lowlier,

Mean, unnoticed—and unknown,

And to God a vessel holier,

Filled with Christ and Christ alone!

Naught of earth to cloud the glory,

Naught of self the light to dim,

Telling forth His wondrous story,

Emptied to be filled with Him.

525 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 Not I, but Christ be honored, loved, exalted,

Not I, but Christ be seen, be known and heard;

Not I, but Christ in every look and action,

Not I, but Christ in every thought and word.

Oh, to be saved from myself, dear Lord,

Oh, to be lost in Thee,

Oh, that it may be no more I,

But Christ that lives in me.

2 Not I, but Christ to gently soothe in sorrow,

Not I, but Christ to wipe the falling tear;\
Not I, but Christ to lift the weary burden,\
Not I, but Christ to hush away all fear.

3 Christ, only Christ, no idle word e’er falling,

Christ, only Christ, no needless bustling sound;

Christ, only Christ, no self-important bearing,

Christ, only Christ, no trace of I be found.

4 Not I, but Christ my every need supplying,

Not I, but Christ my strength and health to be;

Christ, only Christ, for spirit, soul, and body,

Christ, only Christ, live then Thy life in me.

5 Christ, only Christ, ere long will fill my vision,

Glory excelling soon, full soon I’ll see;

Christ, only Christ, my every wish fulfilling,

Christ, only Christ, my all in all to be.\\

526 7.5.7.5.D.

1 In God’s image we were made;

Made for Him to fill,

Thus Himself to duplicate, and

Duplicate He will!

“In God’s image,” yes, indeed—

Matching ev’ry trait.

All His inner life and being

He will duplicate!

2 Adam’s life was like a cone

To contain the Tree;

Man was made to take in God—

What capacity!

God’s container, yes, indeed!

Thus He did design

All the human virtues to be

Filled with the divine.

3 Lost, the image, through man’s fall;

Lost, the life to fill.

But—recovered!—Christ is all:

God will do it still.

Christ our Savior—God and Man—

Is God’s image tree:

Human virtues, life divine

Dwell in me and you.

4 As we spend more time with Him,

He will spread in us;

Virtues filled with life within:

Image glorious!

We will match Him—yes, indeed;

Match His every trait!

All His inner life and being

He will duplicate!

527 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Lord, our earnest expectation

Is that Christ be magnified,

And in all our circumstances

Universally applied.

Lord, in nothing will we be ashamed,

Though in suffering, hardship, loss,

But in all things Christ shall be expressed,

Life shall triumph through the cross!

2 This shall turn to our salvation,

Through the Spirit bountiful

And the prayers of all the members,

For a testimony full.

3 Lord, we praise You for the pattern

Of a living crucified,

And the Father’s exaltation

Of Yourself so qualified.

4 O how blest, this living pattern

Now is being wrought in ust

Crucifixion, exaltation—

Our salvation marvelous.

5 We will work out our salvation

Through the operating God,

Through the willing and the working

Wrought within us by the Lord.

6 Then we’ll blameless be and guileless,

Shining in the world as light,

In a crooked generation

Holding forth the word of life.

7 Let us stand firm in one spirit,

Always striving with one soul,

That for Jesus’ testimony

God through us may reach His goal.

528 8.8.8.8.D.

1 When God created man on earth,

He by His image gave

His treasure in creation see:

His image in humanity.

That God is love could then be known;

That He is light would then be

His holy nature, righteous ways

Would shine in men through all their days.

2 The fall these human virtues soiled;

God’s vessel then seemed hopeless, spoiled.

But Christ, the God-Man-Savior came

These human virtues to reclaim.

He lived a human life so fine,

Strengthened and filled with life divine,

Expressing God in every part,

Then came to dwell within our heart!

3 Now He is all that we require

That God may have His heart’s desire:

Himself expressed in mankind see

Through our restored humanity.

Yes, He is everything we need

The image-reproducing seed;

He’s now been sown into our heart,

His human virtues to impart.

4 If we behold Him every day,

He’ll as the Spirit have His way:

Our inward parts He will transform,

And to His image us conform.

Take every opportunity

To drink of His humanity;

Transforming Spirit to bring in

Until we shine, expressing Him.

529 8.7.8.7.D. with repeat

1 There is always something over,

When we taste our gracious Lord;

Every cup He fills o’erfloweth,

Rich supply He doth afford.

Nothing narrow, nothing stinted,

Ever issued from His store;

To His own He gives full measure,

Running over, evermore.

2 There is always something over,

When we, from the Father’s hand,

Take our portion with thanksgiving,

Praising for the things He planned.

Satisfaction, full and deepening,

All our need He doth supply,

When the heart has tasted Jesus

Its desires to satisfy.

3 There is always something over,

When we share in all His love;

Unplumbed depths still lie beneath us,

Unscaled heights rise far above.

Human lips can never utter

All His wondrous tenderness.

We can only praise and wonder

And His Name forever bless.

530 7.7.7.3.D. with chorus

1 Jesus is reality,

He is life for you and me

And our ev’rything would be.

Call Him Lord.

What the prophets waited for

And the righteous had in store

You may have forevermore

Call Him Lord.

Call Him Lord. Call Him Lord.

In the spirit, by the Spirit,

Call Him Lord.

He has called you for His own,

In your heart His Word is sown,

You can make your heart His throne.

Call Him Lord.

2 All the world would you forsake,

All sin’s bondage fully break,

Fully of His life partake?

Eat His Word.

God desires to be your life,

Set you free from every strife.

Come and taste the Tree of Life.

Eat His Word.

Eat His Word, Eat His Word,

Get it early, get it hourly,

Eat His Word.

What a treasure in your hand!

What an all-inclusive Land!

For your up-to-date demand,

Eat His Word.

3 With our old life now we’re done,

For the Day is coming on

And the night is almost gone:

Overcome!

Praise the Lord we have an ear,

In the church life we can hear

Jesus calling very clear:

Overcome!

Overcome! Overcome!

By obeying what He’s saying,

Overcome!

All our oldness cast away

Through the Body-life today.

He will soon be here to stay:

Overcome!

531 11.10.11.10.

1 Out of the depths of darkness, death, and anguish,

Christ lifted me and brought me to His throne.

No more enslaved by Satan’s dark delusions,

With Christ transcendent, I am His alone.

2 Out of the depths of weakness and frustration,

Set on the mount of praise and perfect peace;

Resting in Him, I know the sweet fulfillment

Of life within that flows in blest release.

3 Out of the depths of fear and disappointment,

Set on the mount of splendor, joy, and grace;

Reigning with Christ, I taste His satisfaction;

Feasting with Him, I glimpse the Bridegroom’s face.

532 13.10.13.4. with chorus

1 Christ is grace, coming to us from the Father above,

Bringing us back to God, the source, who is love.

We partake, through our Savior, of the nature divine—

Oh, how sublime!

Sisters: By the grace, Oh, the love\
Brothers: that is flowing what a treasure,\
Everyone: And the essence divine is saturating our soul.

Sisters: Into love Full and vast,\
Brothers: we are growing; without measure,\
Everyone: Will possess us and bring us to God’s goal.

2 Christ is truth, coming to us as the Word, clear and bright

Bringing us back to God, the source, who is light.

We enjoy, through our Savior, the expression divine—

Through us to shine!

Sisters: By the truth Oh, the light,

Brothers: full of meaning, full of glory,

Everyone: Will possess us and fill the earth with praise.

Sisters: to the light Shining forth

Brothers: that is streaming all God’s story.

Everyone: We are coming and opening our hearts to its rays.

533 13.10.13.4. with chorus

1 God is Spirit—the nature of His Person divine;

Here all the glories of His Being combine.

We partake of this Spirit through the blood shed for us—

How glorious!

Sisters: It is God When Himself\
Brothers: as the Spirit—God as life,

Everyone: He’s our Person, our life, our everything!\
Sisters: He’s the life\
Brothers: we inherit; we’re employing,;\
Everyone: Thus the Person divine becomes our Person within.

2 God is love—this the nature of God’s essence we see;

Oh, what a blessing that partakers are we!

Now the nature divine is being inwrought in us—

How glorious!

Sisters: In this love When in love\
Brothers: we’re abiding, we’re remaining,

Everyone: To be holy, as God, in everything!\
Sisters: And in God Holiness\
Brothers: we’re residing; we are gaining;\
Everyone: Thus the essence divine becomes our essence within.

3 God is light—the expression of the nature divine.

When we’re partaking, how His glory does shine!

Thus the nature divine has its expression in

How glorious!

Sisters: In the light When this light

Brothers: we are dwelling, we’re possessing,\
Sisters: All that’s dark Righteousness\
Brothers: He’s dispelling; we’re expressing;

Everyone: And we’re righteous, as God,

in everything!

534 8.6.8.6. with repeat

1 My God, my Portion, and my Love,

My everlasting All,

I’ve none but Thee in heav’n above,

Or on this earthly ball, Or on this earthly ball.

2 What empty things are all the skies,

And this inferior clod!

There’s nothing here deserves my joys,

There’s nothing like my God,

There’s nothing like my God.

3 To Thee I owe my wealth, and friends,

And health, and safe abode;

Thanks to Thy name for meaner things,

But they are not my God, But they are not my God.

4 How vain a toy is glittering wealth,

If once compared to’ Thee!

Or what’s my safety, or my health,

Or all my friends to me, Or all my friends to me.

5 Were I possessor of the earth,

And called the stars my own,

Without Thy graces and Thyself,

I were a wretch undone, I were a wretch undone.

6 Let others stretch their arms like seas,

And grasp in all the shore;

Grant me the visits of Thy grace,

And I desire no more, And I desire no more.

535 8.6.8.8.6.

1 Eternal Light! Eternal Light!\
How pure the soul must be\
When, placed within Thy searching sight,\
It shrinks not, but with calm delight\
Can live and look on Thee.

2 The spirits that surround Thy throne

May bear the burning bliss;

But that is surely theirs alone,

Since they have never, never known

A fallen world like this.

3 Oh, how shall I, whose native sphere

Is dark, whose mind is dim,

Before th’Ineffable appear,

And on my natural spirit bear

The uncreated beam?

4 There is a way for man to rise

To Thee, sublime Abode;

An Offering and a Sacrifice,

A Holy Spirit’s energies,

An Advocate with God:

5 These, these prepare us for the sight\
Of holiness above;\
The sons of ignorance and night\
May dwell in the eternal Light,\
Through the eternal Love.

536 10.10.10.10.10.10.

1 My home is God Himself; Christ brought me there,

And bade me dwell in Him, rejoicing there;

He bore me where no foot but His hath trod,

Within the holiest at home with God.

O holy place! O home divinely fair!

And we, God’s little ones, abiding there.

2 A long, long road I traveled night and day,

And sought to find within myself some way,

Aught I could do, or feel to bring me near;

Self effort failed, and I was filled with fear,

And then I found Christ was the only way

That I must come to Him and in Him stay.

3 O wondrous place! O home divinely fair!

And I, God’s little one, safe hidden there.

Lord, as I dwell in Thee and Thou in me,

So make me dead to everything but Thee;

That as I rest within my home most fair,

I’ll share my God in all and everywhere.

537 8.6.8.6.D.

1 My heart is resting, O my God,

I will give thanks and sing;

My heart is at the secret source

Of every precious thing.

Oh, peace of God that passeth thought,

I daily, hourly sing;

My heart is at the secret source

Of every precious thing.

2 Now this frail vessel Thou hast made,

No hand but Thine shall fill;

The waters of the earth have failed,

And I am thirsty still.

3 I thirst for springs of heavenly life,

And here all day they rise;

I seek the treasure of Thy love,

And close at hand it lies.

4 A glad, new song is in my mouth,

To long-loved music set,

A song of praise for all the grace

I have not tasted yet.

5 I have a heritage of joy

That yet I must not see;

The hand that bled to make it mine

Is keeping it for me.

6 There is a certainty of love

That sets my heart at rest;

A calm assurance for today

That to be poor is best.

7 A prayer reposing on His truth,

Who hath made all things mine;

That draws my captive will to Him,

And makes it one with Thine.

538 8.8.8.8.

1 Thou sweet, beloved will of God,

My anchor ground, my fortress hill,

My spirit’s silent, fair abode,

In Thee I hide me and am still.

2 O Will, that willest good alone,

Lead Thou the way, Thou guidest best;

A little child, I follow on,

And, trusting, lean upon Thy breast.

3 God’s will doth make the bitter sweet,

And all is well when it is done;

Unless His will doth hallow it,

The glory of all joy is gone.

4 Thy beautiful sweet will, my God,

Holds fast in its sublime embrace

My captive will, a gladsome bird,

Prisoned in such a realm of grace.

5 Within this place of certain good

Love evermore expands her wings,

Or nestling in Thy perfect choice,

Abides content with what it brings.

6 Oh, lightest burden, sweetest yoke;

It lifts, it bears my happy soul,

It giveth wings to this poor heart;

My freedom is Thy grand control.

7 Upon God’s will I lay me down,

As child upon its mother’s breast;

No silken couch, nor softest bed,

Could ever give me such deep rest.

8 Thy wonderful grand will, my God,

With triumph now I make it mine;

And faith shall cry a joyous Yes

To every dear command of Thine.

539 12.8.12.8. with chorus

1 From my spirit within flows a fountain of life—

The Triune God flowing in me;\
God the Father’s the source, Christ the Son is the course,\
And the Spirit imparts life to me.

Lord, I treasure the sweet flow of life,

And my soul-life at last I lay down;

O Lord, deepen the pure flow of life;

At Your coming may life be my crown.

2 In the fresh, tender grass Jesus makes me lie down;

He leads me by waters of rest;

No more struggle and strain; all self-effort is vain;

In the flow I am perfectly blessed.

3 Jesus called me one day to the Holiest Place,

To live in His presence divine;

Hallelujah, I’ve heard an encouraging word:

“Abide—you’re a branch in the vine.”

540 8.6.8.6.

1 O God, our help in ages past,\
Our hope for years to come,\
Our shelter from the stormy blast,\
And our eternal home.

2 Under the shadow of Thy throne\
Thy saints have dwelt secure;\
Sufficient is Thine arm alone,\
And our defence is sure.

3 Before the hills in order stood,

Or earth received her frame,

From everlasting Thou art God,

To endless years the same.

4 A thousand ages in Thy sight

Are like an evening gone;

Short as the watch that ends the night

Before the rising sun.

5 Time, like an ever-rolling stream,

Bears all its sons away;

They fly forgotten, as a dream

Dies at the opening day.

6 O God, our help in ages past,\
Our hope for years to come,\
Be Thou our guard while life shall last,\
And our eternal home.

541 Irregular Meter

1 The cross it standeth fast,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
Defying every blast,\
Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
The winds of hell have blown,\
The world its hate hath shown,\
Yet it is not overthrown,\
Hallelujah for the cross!

Hallelujah, hallelujah,\
Hallelujah for the cross;\
Hallelujah, hallelujah,\
It shall never suffer loss.

2 It is the old cross still,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

Its triumph let us tell,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

The grace of God here shone,\
Through Christ the blessed Son,\
Who hath redemption won,\
Hallelujah for the cross!

3 ’Twas here the debt was paid,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

Our sins on Jesus laid,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

So round the cross we sing

Of Christ, our offering,

Of Christ, our living King,

Hallelujah for the cross!

542 Irregular Meter

1 The cross—we all were there,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

For all that death did share!

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

God there upon it died,

And man and all beside

Were wholly crucified—

Hallelujah for the cross!

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

Hallelujah for the cross!

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

It shall never suffer loss!

2 The cross, it holdeth fast,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

All things upon it cast,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

Two arms extended strong

Hold those who there belong;

We’re through with self—our song:

Hallelujah for the cross!

3 ’Tis there man died in God,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!;

There ceased this human clod,

Hallelujah! hallelujah!

With joy we all declare,

We’re terminated there!

We’ll sing now and fore’er,

Hallelujah for the cross!

4 ’Tis there man died in God,\
Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
Fulfilling thus His plan,\
Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
Through death He was released\
And now He has increased;\
His life is our rich feast—\
Hallelujah for the cross!

Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
God has been released in us!\
Hallelujah! hallelujah!\
Hallelujah for the cross!

543 12.8.12.8. with chorus

1 On a hill far away stood an old rugged cross,

The emblem of suffering and shame,

And I love that old cross where the Dearest and Best

For a world of lost sinners was slain.

So I’ll cherish the old rugged cross,

Till my trophies at last I lay down;

I will cling to the old rugged cross,

And exchange it some day for a crown

2 Oh, that old rugged cross, so despised by the world,

Has a wondrous attraction for me;

For the dear Lamb of God left His glory above,

To bear it to dark Calvary.

3 In the old rugged cross, stained with blood so divine,

A wondrous beauty I see;

For ’twas on that old cross Jesus suffered and died,

To pardon and sanctify me.

4 To the old rugged cross I will ever be true,

It’s shame and reproach gladly bear;

Then He’ll call me some day to my home far away,

Where His glory forever I’ll share.

.544 8.7.8.7.

1 In the cross of Christ I glory,

Tow’ring o’er the wrecks of time;

All the light of sacred story

Gathers round its head sublime.

2 When the woes of life o’ertake me,

Hopes deceive, and fears annoy,

Never shall the cross forsake me,

Lo! It glows with peace and joy.

3 When the sun of bliss is beaming

Light and love upon my way,

From the cross the radiance streaming

Adds more luster to the day.

4 Bane and blessing, pain and pleasure,

By the cross are sanctified;

Peace is there that knows no measure,

Joys that through all time abide.

545 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 I am crucified with Christ,\
And the cross hath set me free;

I have ris’n again with Christ,\
And He lives and reigns in me.

Oh! it is so sweet to die with Christ,

To the world, and self, and sin;

Oh! it is so sweet to live with Christ,

As He lives and reigns within.

2 Mystery hid from ancient ages!

But at length to faith made plain:

Christ in me the Hope of Glory,

Tell it o’er and o’er again.

3 This the secret nature hideth,

Harvest grows from buried grain;

A poor tree with better grafted,

Richer, sweeter life doth gain.

4 This the secret of the holy,

Not our holiness, but Him;

O Lord! empty us and fill us,

With Thy fulness to the brim.

5 This the balm for pain and sickness,\
Just to all our strength to die,\
And to find His life and fulness,\
All our being’s need supply.

6 This the story of the Master,

Thru the Cross, He reached the Throne,

And like Him our path to glory,

Ever leads through death alone.

546 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

1 Crucified with Christ my Savior,

To the world and self and sin;

To the death-born life of Jesus

I am sweetly ent’ring in:

In His fellowship of suff’ring,

To His death conformed to be,

I am going with my Savior

All the way to Calvary.

All the way to Calvary,

Where my Savior went for me,

Help me, Lord, to go with Thee,

All the way to Calvary.

2 ’Tis not hard to die with Christ

When His risen life we know;

’Tis not hard to share His suff’rings

When our hearts with joy o’erflow.

In His resurrection power

He has come to dwell in me,

And my heart is gladly going

All the way to Calvary.

3 If we die we’ll live with Christ,

If we suffer we shall reign;

Only thus the prize of glory

Can the conqueror attain.

Oh, how sweet, on that glad morning

Should the Master say to thee,

“Yes, my child, thou didst go with me

All the way to Calvary.”

547 6.6.6.6.D. with chorus

1 Though Christ a thousand times

In Bethlehem be born,

If He’s not born in thee

Thy soul is still forlorn.

The Cross on Golgotha,

Will never save thy soul;

The Cross in thine own heart,

Alone can make thee whole.

O, Cross of Christ, I take thee

Into this heart of mine,

That I to my own self may die

And rise to thy life Divine.

2 What e’er thou lovest, man,

That too become thou must;

God, if thou lovest God,

Dust, if thou lovest dust.

Go out, God will come in;

Die thou and let Him live;

Be not and He will be;

Wait and He’ll all things give.

3 To bring thee to thy God,

Love takes the shortest route;

The way which knowledge leads,

Is but a roundabout.

Drive out from thee the world,

And then thy heart shall be

Filled with the love of God,

And holy like as He.

548 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

1 First the blood, and then the ointment,

Cleansing, then anointing comes;

If we pass not thru Golgotha,

Ne’er to Pentecost we’ll come.

If the blood has never cleansed us,

Ne’er the Spirit’s pow’r we’ll know,

If for Christ we’d truly witness,

Self-life to the Cross must go.

Through the Cross, O Lord, I pray,

Put my soul-life all away;

Make me any price to pay,

Full anointing to receive.

2 Christ, the Rock, must first be smitten,\
That the living water flow;\
Without death the Spirit’s fulness\
Ne’er could dwell in man below.\
If with Christ we die completely,\
Willing thus our all to lose,\
He will clothe us with His power\
And to win the world will use.

3 First the altar, then the fire,

If no loss, there’ll be no gain;

If our all has not been offered,

To the throne we’ll ne’er attain.

If to sacrifice we’re willing,

All forsaking, God t’obey,

He to us will be committed

And thru us His pow’r display.

4 First we must prepare the vessels

That the Oil they may contain;

Dig the valley full of ditches

That they may be filled with Rain.

First we must go thru the Jordan

Ere anointed from above;

First in death we must be baptized,

Then experience the Dove.

5 When we see the ripened harvest

Of the golden countryside,

We may know that many seeds have

Fallen to the earth and died.

Ere the fruit of life may blossom,

We must surely suffer death;

If with Christ we’ve not been buried,

We’ll not feel the Spirit’s breath.

6 Since it must be thus, I pray, Lord,

Help me go the narrow way;

Deal with pride and make me willing

Thus to suffer, Thee t’obey.

I for greater power pray not.

Deeper death is what I need;

All the meaning of the Cross, Lord,

Work in my—for this I plead.

549 Irregular Meter

1 The way of the Cross means sacrifice,

As to God you yield your all

To be laid on the altar, the place of death,

Where fire will surely fall.

’Tis the way of the Cross, are you willing for this?

What does bearing the Cross mean to you?

You who’ve given yourself, your all to God!

To God are you wholly true?

2 As the voice of song and prayer we raise,

How easy to say, We give all;\
Till some rougher cross lies just before,\
And sterner is duty’s call.

3 Do you falter then, or, true to death,

Just die on the cross in the way,

Till the fulness of life from the Living One

Is filling you day by day?

4 ’Tis the plan of life, for you die to live,\
One with Jesus crucified;\
With the life alone to be lived through you,\
Of the Risen, the Glorified.

550 6.5.6.5.D.

1 If the path I travel

Lead me to the cross,

If the way Thou choosest

Lead to pain and loss,

Let the compensation

Daily, hourly, be

Shadowless communion,

Blessed Lord, with Thee.

2 If there’s less of earth joy,

Give, Lord, more of heaven.

Let the spirit praise Thee,

Though the heart be riven;

If sweet earthly ties, Lord,

Break at Thy decree,

Let the tie that binds us,

Closer, sweeter, be.

3 Lonely though the pathway,

Cheer it With Thy smile;

Be Thou my companion

Through earth’s little while;

Selfless may I live, Lord,

By Thy grace to be

Just a cleansed channel

For Thy life through me.

