551 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Via Bethlehem we journey,

We whose hearts on God are set;

Babelike souls of Jesus learning,

While our cheeks with tears are wet;

For the manger and the stable

Are not pleasant to our eyes,

But our feet must follow Jesus,

If our hands would grasp the prize.

2 Via Nazareth! the pathway

Narrows still as on we go,

Years of toil none understanding,

Yet God teaches us to know

That the servant is not greater

Than the Lord, who thro’ long years

Hid Himself from this world’s glory,

Follow Him! Count not the tears.

3 Via Galilee, we see Him!

Stones are hurled, and curses hissed

By the men who gather round Him,

Has He not the pathway missed?

No! unharmed the Savior passes,

And this rough bit of the way

We must travel, since like Jesus,

Nothing can our purpose stay.

4 Via too, the awful anguish

Of the hours beneath the trees,

Where the hosts of Satan linger,

Awful hours of anguish these!

Yet we fail not, for God’s angels

Minister to us, and say,

“Look, beloved, at the glory,

Conflict is but for a day!”

5 Then the Cross! for via Calvary

Every royal soul must go;

Here we draw the veil, for Jesus

Only can the pathway show;

“If we suffer with Him,” listen,

Just a little, little While,

And the memory will have faded

In the glory of His smile!

6 Then the grave, with dear ones weeping,\
Knowing that all life has fled;\
(Fellow-pilgrims, art thou numbered\
With the men the world calls dead?)\
Thence we rise, and live with Jesus,\
Throned above the world’s mad strife,\
Gladly forfeiting forever,\
All that worldlings count as life.

7 On we press! and yonder gleaming,\
Nearing every day, we see\
The great walls of that fair city,

God has built for such as we;

And we catch the tender music

Of the choirs that sing of One

Who once died to have us with Him

In His kingdom, on the throne.

8 Just a few more miles, beloved!

And our feet shall ache no more;

No more sin, and no more sorrow,

Hush thee, Jesus went before;

And I hear Him sweetly whispering,

“Faint not, fear not, still press on,

For it may be ere tomorrow,

The long journey will be done.”

552 4.10.8.8.6.

1 Hast thou no scar?

No hidden scar on foot, or side, or hand?

I hear thee sung throughout the land,

I hear them hail thy shining star,

Hast thou no scar? no scar?

2 Hast thou no wound?

Yet I was wounded by the archers, spent,

Leaned Me against a tree; and rent

By ravening beasts ‘round Me, I swooned:

Hast thou no wound? no wound?

3 No wound? no scar?

Yet, as the Master shall the servant be,

And pierced the feet that follow Me;

But whole? can he have followed far

Who has no wound nor scar?

553 8.5.8.7.D. with chorus

1 Olives that have known no pressure

No oil can bestow;

If the grapes escape the winepress,

Cheering wine can never flow;

Spikenard only through the crushing,

Fragrance can diffuse.

Shall I then, Lord, shrink from suff’ring

Which Thy love for me would choose?

Each blow I suffer

Is true gain to me.

In the place of what Thou takest

Thou dost give Thyself to me.

2 Do my heart-strings need Thy stretching,

Songs divine to prove?

Do I need for sweetest music

Cruel treatment of Thy love?

Lord, I fear no deprivation

If it draws to Thee;

I would yield in full surrender

All Thy heart of love to see.

3 I’m ashamed, my Lord, for seeking.

Self to guard alway;

Though Thy love has done its stripping,

Yet I’ve been compelled this way.

Lord, according to Thy pleasure

Fully work on me;

Heeding not my human feelings,

Only do what pleases Thee.

4 If Thy mind and mine should differ,

Still pursue Thy way;

If Thy pleasure means my sorrow,

Still my heart shall answer. “Yea!”

’Tis my deep desire to please Thee,

Though I suffer loss;

E’en though Thy delight and glory

Mean that I endure the cross.

5 Oh, I’ll praise Thee, e’en if weeping

Mingle with my song.

Thine increasing sweetness calls forth

Grateful praises all day long.

Thou hast made Thyself more precious

Than all else to me:

Thou increase and I decrease, Lord—

This is now my only plea.

554 7.7.7.7.

1 ’Tis my happiness below

Not to live without the cross;

But the Savior’s pow’r to know

Sanctifying every loss.

2 Trials must and will befall;

But with humble faith to see

Love inscribed upon them all—

This is happiness to me.

3 Did I meet no trials here,

No chastisement by the way,

Might I not with reason fear

I should prove a castaway?

4 Trials make the promise sweet;

Trials give new life to prayer;

Bring me to my Savior’s feet,

Lay me low and keep me there.

555 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Let us contemplate the grape vine,\
From its life now let us learn,\
How its growth is fraught with suff’ring,\
Midst environment so stern;\
How unlike the untamed flowers\
Growing in the wilderness\
In a maze of wild confusion,\
Making patterns numberless.

2 But the blossoms of the grape vine

Without glory are and small;\
Though they do have some expression,\
They are hardly seen withal.\
But a day since they have flowered\
Into fruit the blooms have grown;\
Never may they wave corollas\
With luxuriant beauty shown.

3 To a post the vine is fastened;

Thus it cannot freely grow;

When its branches are extended,

To the trellis tied they go.

To the stony soil committed,

Drawing thence its food supply;

It can never choose its own way,

Or from difficulty fly.

4 Oh, how beautiful its verdure,

Which in spring spreads o’er the field.

From life’s energy and fulness

Growth abundant doth it yield.

Till it’s full of tender branches

Twining freely everywhere,

Stretching ‘gainst the sky’s deep azure

Tasting sweetly of the air.

5 But the master of the vineyard

Not in lenience doth abide,

But with knife and pruning scissors

Then would strip it of its pride.

Caring not the vine is tender,

But with deep, precision stroke

All the pretty, excess branches

From the vine are neatly broke.

6 In this time of loss and ruin,

Dare the vine self-pity show?

Nay, it gives itself more fully

To the one who wounds it so,

To the hand that strips its branches,

Till of beauty destitute,

That its life may not be wasted,

But preserved for bearing fruit.

7 Into hard wood slowly hardens

Every stump of bleeding shoot,

Each remaining branch becoming

Clusters of abundant fruit.

Then, beneath the scorching sunshine,

Leaves are dried and from it drop;

Thus the fruit more richly ripens

Till the harvest of the crop,

8 Bowed beneath its fruitful burden,

Loaded branches are brought low—

Labor of its growth thru suff’ring

Many a purposed, cutting blow.

Now its fruit is fully ripened,

Comforted the vine would be;

But the harvest soon is coming,

And its days of comfort flee.

9 Hands will pick and feet will trample

All the riches of the vine,

Till from out the reddened wine-press

Flows a river full of wine.

All the day its flow continues,

Bloody-red, without alloy,

Gushing freely, richly, sweetly,

Filling all the earth with joy.

10 In appearance now the grape vine

Barren is and pitiful;

Having given all, it enters

Into night inscrutable.

No one offers to repay it

For the cheering wine that’s drunk,

But ’tis stripped and cut e’en further

To a bare and branchless trunk.

11 Yet its wine throughout the winter

Warmth and sweetness ever bears

Unto those in coldness shiv’ring,

Pressed with sorrow, pain, and cares.

Yet without, alone, the grape vine

Midst the ice and snow doth stand,

Steadfastly its lot enduring,

Though, tis hard to understand.

12 Winter o’er, the vine prepareth

Fruit again itself to bear;

Budding forth and growing branches,

Beauteous green again to wear;

Never murmuring or complaining

For the winter’s sore abuse,

Or for all its loss desiring

Its fresh off’ring to reduce.

13 Breathing air, untainted, heavenly,

As it lifts its arms on high,

Earth’s impure, defiled affections

Ne’er the vine may occupy.

Facing sacrifice, yet smiling,

And while love doth prune once more,

Strokes it bears as if it never

Suffered loss and pain before.

14 From the branches of the grape vine

Sap and blood and wine doth flow.

Does the vine, for all it suffered,

Lost, and yielded, poorer grow?

Drunkards of the earth and wanderers,

From it drink and merry make.

From their pleasure and enjoyment

Do they richer thereby wake?

15 Not by gain our life is measured,

But by what we’ve lost ’tis scored;

’Tis not how much wine is drunken,

But how much has been outpoured.

For the strength of love e’er standeth

In the sacrifice we bear;

He who has the greatest suff’ring

Ever has the most to share.

16 He who treats himself severely

Is the best for God to gain;

He who hurts himself most dearly

Most can comfort those in pain.

He who suffering never beareth

Is but empty “sounding brass”;

He who self-life never spareth

Has the joys which all surpass.

556 8.6.8.6.

1 If from the right course I depart,

Then ease my lot would be;

But I remember how my Lord

Did suffer agony.

2 I’ll utterly forsake this world,

And sever all its ties.

My path may narrow more and more;

And all against me rise.

3 Though men may scowl and laugh to scorn,

I only want His smile.

His “well done” only I’d secure

While here this little while.

4 Not after greatness do I seek,

Nor glory here desire,

But humbly I would serve the Lord,

His praise that day acquire.

5 I’m daily gazing at the light

Shed from His judgment seat,

That all my living and my work

The test of fire may meet.

6 Let others seek for great success,

For glory, wealth, and name;

Let them procure their grandeur here,

Their followers and fame.

7 In solitude and poverty,

Though prospering not in soul,

Yet faithfully I’ll follow Him

Until I reach the goal.

8 I know that when on earth He dwelt

His lot was but the cross;

And that is why I only wish

With Him to suffer loss.

9 Since all my glories lie ahead,

I must to patience cleave.

I will not go before my Lord

And glory here receive.

10 That day my honors I will have;

The Lord will dry my tears.

So faithfully I’ll still press on

Until my Lord appears.

557 7.6.8.6.8.6.8.6.

1 Beneath the cross of Jesus

I fain would take my stand,

The shadow of a mighty Rock

Within a weary land;

A home within the wilderness,

A rest upon the way,

From the burning of the noontide heat,

And the burden of the day.

2 Oh, safe and happy shelter!

Oh, refuge tried and sweet!

Oh, trysting place where heaven’s love

And heaven’s justice meet.

As to the holy patriarch

That wondrous dream was given,

So is my Savior by the cross

A ladder up to heaven.

3 There lies beneath its shadow,

But on the farther side,

The darkness of an awful grave

That gapes both deep and wide;

And there between us stands the cross,

Two arms outstretched to save,

Like a watchman set to guard the way

From that eternal grave.

4 Upon that cross of Jesus

Mine eye at times can see

The very dying form of One,

Who suffered there for me;

And from my smitten heart, with tears,

Two wonders I confess,

The wonders of His glorious love,

And my own worthlessness.

5 I take, O cross, thy shadow

For my abiding place;

I ask no other sunshine than

The sunshine of His face;

Content’ to let the world go by,

To know no gain nor loss,

My sinful self my only shame,

My glory all the cross.

558 7.6.7.6. with chorus

1 Jesus, keep me near the cross,

There a precious fountain,

Free to all—a healing stream,

Flows from Calv’ry’s mountain.

In the cross, in the cross,

Be my glory ever;

Till my raptured soul shall find

Rest with Him forever.

2 Near the cross, a trembling soul,

Love and mercy found me;

There the Bright and Morning Star

Sheds its beams around me.

3 Near the cross! O Lamb of God,

Bring its scenes before me;

Help me walk from day to day,

With its shadow o’er me.

4 Near the cross I’ll watch and wait,

Hoping, trusting ever,

Till I see my Savior’s face,

Leave His presence never.

559 11.10.11.10.

1 Life out of death—dear Master, is it Spoken\
Of the life here, or in the better land?

Nay, wherefore wait? The vessel marred and broken,

Shall now be moulded by the Potter’s hand.

2 Life out of death—oh, wondrous resurrection!\
Seed sown in conscious weakness, raised in power;\
Thy life lived out in days of toil and friction,\
”Not I, but Christ” in me from hour to hour.

3 Life out of death—a pilgrim path and lonely,

Trodden by those who glory in the Cross.

They live in fellowship with “Jesus only,”

And for His sake count earthly gain but loss.

560 8.7.8.7.3 with chorus

1 Take the name of Jesus with you,

Child of sorrow and of woe;\]

It will joy and comfort give you,\
Take it then where’er you go.

Precious name! Oh, how sweet!\
Hope of earth and joy of hear’n;\
Precious name! Oh, how sweet!\
Hope of earth and joy of heav’n.

2 Take the name of Jesus ever,

As a shield from every snare.\
If temptations ‘round you gather,\
Breathe that holy name in prayer.

3 Oh, the precious name of Jesus,\
How it thrills our souls with joy;\
When His loving arms receive us,\
And His songs our tongues employ.

4 At the name of Jesus bowing,\
Falling prostrate at His feet,\
King of kings in heav’n we’ll crown Him,

When our journey is complete.

561 10.10.10.10.

1 Deep down into the depths of this Thy Name,

My God, I sink and dwell in calm delight;

Thou art enough how ever long the day,

Thou art enough however dark the night.

2 Thou art my God—the All-Sufficient One,

Thou canst create for me whate’er I lack;

Thy mighty hand has strewn the lonely track

With miracles of love and tender care.

3 For me Thy trusting one. My God I dare

Once more to fling myself upon Thy breast,

And there adore Thy ways in faith’s deep rest,

And there adore Thy ways in faith’s quiet rest.

562 10.10.10.10.

1 Not what I am, O Lord, but what Thou art;

That, that alone, can be my soul’s true rest;

Thy love, not mine, bids fear and doubt depart,

And stills the tempest of my tossing breast.

2 It is Thy perfect love that casts out fear;

I know the voice that speaks the It is I,

And in these well-known words of heavenly cheer

I hear the joy that bids each sorrow fly.

3 Thy Name is Love! I hear it from yon Cross;

Thy Name is Love! I read it in yon tomb:

All meaner love is perishable dross,

But this shall light me through time’s thickest gloom.

4 It blesses now, and shall for ever bless;

It saves me now, and shall for ever save;

It holds me up in days of helplessness,

It bears me safely o’er each swelling wave.

5 ’Tis what I know of Thee, my Lord and God,

That fills my soul with peace, my lips with song;

Thou art my health, my joy, my staff, my rod;

Leaning on Thee, in weakness I am strong.

6 More of Thyself, Oh, show me, hour by hour;

More of Thy glory, O my God and Lord;

More of Thyself in all Thy grace and power;

More of Thy love and truth, Incarnate Word.

563 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 Safe in the arms of Jesus,

Safe on His gentle breast,

There by His love o’ershaded,

Sweetly my soul doth rest.

Hark! ’tis a song of heaven

Borne in the sweetest voice,

Echoed by saints in spirit,

Making my heart rejoice.

Safe in the arms of Jesus,

Safe on His gentle breast,

There by His love o’ershaded,

Sweetly my soul doth rest.

2 Safe in the arms of Jesus,

Safe from corroding care,

Safe from the world’s temptations,

Sin cannot harm me there.

Free from the blight of sorrow,

Free from my doubts and fears;

Only a few more trials,

Only a few more tears.

3 Jesus, my heart’s dear Refuge,

Jesus has died for me;

Firm on the Rock of Ages

Ever my trust shall be.

Here let me wait with patience,

Wait till the night is o’er,

Wait till I see the morning

Break on the golden shore.

564 Irregular Meter

1 “Fear not, I am with thee”;\
Blessed golden ray,\
Like a star of glory,\
Lighting up my way!\
Through the clouds of midnight,\
This bright promise shone,\
“I will never leave thee,\
Never will leave thee alone.”

No, never alone,

No, never alone;

He promised never to leave me,

Never to leave me alone;

Never to leave me alone.

2 Roses fade around me,\
Lilies bloom and die,\
Earthly sunbeams vanish—\
Radiant still the sky!\
Jesus, Henna-flower,\
Blooming for His own,\
Jesus, heaven’s sunshine,\
Never will leave me alone.

3 Steps unseen before me,

Hidden dangers near;

Nearer still my Savior,

Whispering, “Be of cheer”;

Joys, like birds of springtime,

To my heart have flown,

Singing all so sweetly,

“He will not leave me alone.”

565 8.6.8.6.

1 God moves in a mysterious way

His wonders to perform:

He plants His footsteps in the sea,

And rides upon the storm.

2 Deep in unfathomable mines

Of never-failing skill,

He treasures up His bright designs,

And works His sovereign will.

3 Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take;

The clouds ye so much dread

Are big with mercy, and shall break

In blessings on your head.

4 Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,

But trust Him for His grace;

Behind a frowning providence

He hides a smiling face.

5 His purposes will ripen fast,

Unfolding every hour:

The bud may have a bitter taste,

But sweet will be the flower.

6 Blind unbelief is sure to err,

And scan His work in vain;

God is His own Interpreter,

And He will make it plain.

566 7.6.7.6.D.

1 In heav’nly love abiding

No change my heart shall fear;

And safe is such confiding,

For nothing changes here.

The storm may roar without me,

My heart may low be laid;

But God is round about me,

And can I be dismayed?

2 Wherever He may guide me,

No want shall turn me back;

My Shepherd is beside me,

And nothing can I lack.

His wisdom ever waketh,

His sight is never dim;

He knows the way He taketh,

And I will walk with Him.

3 Green pastures are before me,

Which yet I have not seen;

Bright skies will soon be o’er me,

Where the dark clouds have been.

My hope I cannot measure:

My path to life is free:

My Savior has my treasure,

And He will walk with me.

567 6.10.7.7.10.

1 In His time, in His time,

He makes all things beautiful in His time.

Lord, please show me ev’ry day

As You’re teaching me Your way

That You do just what You say in Your time.

2 In Your time, in Your time,

You make all things beautiful in Your time.

Lord, my life to You I bring,

May each song I have to sing

Be to You a lovely thing in Your time.

568 8.3.8.3. with chorus

1 Hark! a voice from heav’n proclaiming,\
“It is done.”\
Faith repeats the echo claiming,\
“It is done.”

Hear the message from the throne,

Claim the promise, doubting one;

God hath spoken, “It is done.”

Faith has answered, “It is done.”

Prayer is over, praise begun.

Hallelujah, “It is done.”

2 Hear the bleeding Savior crying,

“It is done.”

Claim His finished work, replying,

“It is done.”

3 Yield thyself in consecration,

“It is done.”

Take the Lord for full salvation,

“It is done.”

4 Claim the promise of His healing,

“It is done.”

Trust without a sign or feeling,

“It is done.”

5 Say of every promised blessing,

“It is done.”

Rest upon His word, confessing,

“It is done.”

6 This the secret of receiving,

“It is done.”

Take Him at His word believing,

“It is done.”

569 8.8.8.8.

1 He faileth not, for He is God;

He faileth not, His grace how good!

He faileth not, His Word is clear;

If we have God, whom need we fear?

2 The highest mount, He can make plain;

The wildest flood, He can restrain!

God of Impossibilities!

Poor puny man, now learn His ways.

3 The axe did swim on Jordan’s wave!

Our God the Red Sea’s waters clave!

He stopped the sun! made long the day!

This is the God to whom we pray.

4 He bars the sea with feeble sand!

The proud waves bow at His command!

If God is thine, what more your need?

Can He not work for you indeed?

5 Our God is love; your needs are known;

His promises He’ll fully own.

Our gracious God bows down His ear

The feeblest, weakest cry to hear.

6 Our God is light, and never yet,

One promise did He e’er forget.

His promises in Christ the Son

Are fully pledged, Yea and Amen.

7 Our faithful God, faith cannot break,

Nor death, nor hell, His promise shake!

Who ask in faith, He’ll not deny;

His Word is sure, He must reply.

8 He faileth not, let all men hear;

He faileth not, His Word is clear.

He faileth not, His grace how good;

He faileth not, for He is God!

1.  Be not dismayed whate’er betide,

> God will take care of you!

Beneath His wings of love abide,

God will take care of you!

God will take care of you,

Through every day o’er all the way;

He will take care of you;

God will take care of you!

2 Through days of toil when heart doth fail,

God will take care of you!

When dangers fierce your path assail,

God will take care of you!

3 All you may need He will provide,

God will take care of you!

Trust Him, and you will be satisfied,

God will take care of you!

4 Lonely and sad, from friends apart,

God will take care of you!

He will give peace to your aching heart,

God will take care of you!

5 No matter what may be the test,

God will take care of you!

Lean, weary one, upon His breast,

God will take care of you!

571 10.10.10.10.10.10.

1 Be still, my soul! the Lord is on thy side;

Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain;

Leave to thy God to order and provide;

In every change He faithful will remain.

Be still, my soul! thy best, thy heav’nly Friend

Thro’ thorny ways leads to a joyful end.

2 Be still, my soul! thy God doth undertake

To guide the future as He has the past.

Thy hope, thy confidence let nothing shake;

All now mysterious shall be bright at last.

Be still, my soul! the waves and winds still know

His voice who ruled them while He dwelt below.

3 Be still, my soul! the hour is hast’ning on

we shall be forever with the Lord,

When disappointment, grief, and fear are gone,

Sorrow forgot, love’s purest joys restored.

Be still, my soul! when change and tears are past,

All safe and blessed we shall meet at last.

572 Irregular Meter

1 Does Jesus care when my heart is pained

Too deeply for mirth or song,

As the burdens press, And the cares distress,

And the way grows weary and long?

O yes, He cares, I know He cares,

His heart is touched with my grief;

When the days are weary,

The long night dreary,

I know my Savior cares.

2 Does Jesus care when my way is dark

With a nameless dread and fear?

As the daylight fades Into deep night shades,

Does He care enough to be near?

3 Does Jesus care when I’ve tried and failed

To resist some temptation strong;

When for my deep grief There is no relief,

Though my tears flow all the night long?

4 Does Jesus care when I’ve said “goodbye”

To the dearest on earth to me,

And my sad heart aches Till it nearly breaks,

Is it aught to Him? Does He see?

573 10.6.10.6. with chorus

1 There’s not a Friend like, the lowly Jesus:

No, not one! no, not one!

None else could heal all our souls’ diseases:

No, not one! no, not one!

Jesus knows all about our struggles;

He will guide till, the day is done:

There’s not a Friend like the lowly Jesus:

No, not one! no, not one!

2 No friend like Him is so high and holy,

No, not one! no, not one!

And yet no friend is so meek and lowly,

No, not one! no, not one!

3 There’s not an hour that He is not near us,

No, not one! no, not one!

No night so dark, but His love can cheer us,

No, not one! no, not one!

4 Did ever saint find this Friend forsake him?

No, not one! no, not one!

Or sinner find that He would not take him?

No, not one! no, not one!

5 Was e’er a gift like the Savior given?

No, not one! no, not one!

Will He refuse us the bliss of heaven?

No, not one! no, not one!

574 8.7.8.5.D.

1 I’m a pilgrim and a stranger,

Rough and thorny is the road.

Often in the midst of danger,

But it leads to God.

Clouds and darkness oft distress me,

Great and many are my foes;

Anxious cares and tho’ts oppress me,

But my Father knows.

2 Oh, how sweet is this assurance,

‘Mid the conflict and the strife!

Although sorrows past endurance

Follow me through life.

Home in prospect still can cheer me,

Yes, and give me sweet repose,

While I feel His presence near me;

For my Father knows.

3 Yes, He sees and knows me daily,

Watches over me in love;

Sends me help when foes assail me—

Bids me look above.

Soon my journey will be ended,

Life is drawing to a close;

I shall then be well attended;

This my Father knows.

4 I shall then with joy behold Him—

Face to face my Father see;

Fall with rapture, and adore Him

For His love to me.

Nothing more shall then distress me

In the land of sweet repose;

Jesus stands engaged to bless me;

This my Father knows.

575 8.7.8.7.D. with repeat

1 All the way my Savior leads me;

What have I to ask beside?

Can I doubt His tender mercy,

Who through life has been my Guide?

Heav’nly peace, divinest comfort,

Here by faith in Him to dwell!

For I know, whate’er befall me,

Jesus doeth all things well.

2 All the way my Savior leads me,

Cheers each winding path I tread,

Gives me grace for every trial,

Feeds me with the living bread.

Though my weary steps may falter,

And my soul athirst may be,

Gushing from the Rock before me,

Lo! a spring of joy I see.

3 All the way my Savior leads me;

Oh, the fullness of His grace!

Perfect rest to me is promised

In my Father’s blest embrace.

When my spirit, clothed immortal,

Wings its flight to realms of day,

This my song through endless ages:

Jesus led me all the way.

576 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Precious promise God doth give thee,

Thou, the weary passerby,

On the way from earth to glory:

“I will guide thee with Mine eye.”

I will guide thee, I will guide thee,

I will guide thee with Mine eye;

On the way from earth to glory,

I will guide thee with Mine eye.

2 When temptations fierce assail thee,

When thy trusted helpers fly,

Let this promise ring within .thee,

“I will guide thee with Mine eye.”

3 When thy secret hopes have perished

In the grave of years gone by,

Let this promise still be cherished,

“I will guide thee with Mine eye.”

4 When the shades of life are falling,

And the hour has come to die,

Hear thy faithful Pilot calling,

“I will guide thee with Mine eye.”

577 8.8.8.8.D.

1 Not now, but in the coming years,

It may be when with Christ we stand,

We’ll read the meaning of our tears,

And there, sometime, we’ll understand.

Then trust in God through all thy days;

Fear not, for He doth hold thy hand;

Though dark thy way, still sing and praise,

Sometime, sometime, we’ll understand.

2 We’ll catch the broken thread again,

And finish what we here began;

God will the mysteries explain,

And then, ah, then, we’ll understand.

3 We’ll know why clouds instead of sun\
Were over many a cherished plan;\
Why song has ceased when scarce begun;\
’Tis then, sometime, we’ll understand.

4 Why what we long for most of all,

Eludes so oft our eager hand;

Why hopes are crushed and castles fall,

Till then, sometime, we’ll understand.

5 God knows the way, He holds the key,

He guides us with unerring hand;

Sometime with tearless eyes we’ll see;

Yes, then, ’tis then, we’ll understand.

578 Irregular Meter

1 I know not what awaits me,

God kindly veils my eyes,

And o’er each step of my onward way

He makes new scenes to rise;

And every joy He sends me comes

A sweet and glad surprise.

Where He may lead I’ll follow,

My trust in Him repose;

And every hour in perfect peace,

I’ll sing, “He knows, He knows”;

And every hour in perfect peace,

I’ll sing, “He knows, He knows.”

2 One step I see before me,

’Tis all I need to see,

The light of heaven more brightly shines

When earth’s illusions flee;

And sweetly through the silence comes,

His loving, “Trust in Me!”

3 Oh, blissful lack of wisdom,

’Tis blessed not to know;

He holds me with His own right hand,

And will not let me go,

And lulls my troubled soul to rest

In Him who loves me so.

4 So on I go not knowing;

I would not if I might;

I’d rather walk in the dark with God

Than go alone in the light;

I’d rather walk by faith with Him

Than go alone by sight.

579 8.8.8.8.

1 Be still, my heart! these anxious cares

To thee are burdens, thorns and snares;

They cast dishonor on the Lord,

And contradict His gracious word.

2 Brought safely by His hand thus far,

Why wilt thou now give place to fear?

How canst thou want if He provide,

Or lose thy way with such a Guide?

3 When first before His mercy-seat

Thou didst to Him thine all commit;

He gave thee warrant from that hour

To trust His wisdom, love, and power.

4 Did ever trouble yet befall,

And He refuse to hear thy call?

And has He not His promise passed,

That thou shalt overcome at last?

5 He who has helped me hitherto

Will help me all my journey through,

And give me daily cause to raise

New Ebenezers to His Praise.

6 Though rough and thorny be the road,

It leads thee on, apace, to God;

Then count thy present trials small,

For God will make amends for all.

580 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 When upon life’s billows you are tempest tossed,

When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost,

Count your many blessings name them one by one,

And it will surprise you what the Lord hath done.

Count your blessings, name them one by one;

Count your blessings, see what God hath done;

Count your blessings, name them one by one,

And it will surprise you what the Lord hath done.

2 Are you ever burdened with a load of care?

Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear?

Count your many blessings, every doubt will fly,

And you will be singing as the days go by.

3 When you look at others with their lands and gold,

Think that Christ has promised you His wealth untold.

Count your many blessings, money cannot buy

Your reward in heaven, nor your Lord on high.

4 So amid the conflict, whether great or small,

Do not be discouraged, God is over all;

Count your many blessings, angels will attend,

Help and comfort give you to your journey’s end.

581 10.9.10.9.10.9.10.7.

1 Day by day, and with each passing moment,

Strength I find to meet my trials here;

Trusting in my Father’s wise bestowment,

I’ve no cause for worry or for fear.

He, whose heart is kind beyond all measure,

Gives unto each day what He deems best,

Lovingly its part of pain and pleasure,

Mingling toil with peace and rest.

2 Every day the Lord Himself is near me,

With a special mercy for each hour;

All my cares He fain would bear and cheer me,

He whose name is Counsellor and Pow’r.

The protection of His child and treasure

Is a charge that on Himself He laid;

“As thy days, thy strength shall be in measure,”

This the pledge to me He made.

3 Help me then, in every tribulation,

So to trust Thy promises, O Lord,

That I lose not faith’s sweet consolation,

Offered me within Thy holy Word.

Help me, Lord, when toil and trouble meeting,

E’er to take, as from a father’s hand,

One by one, the days, the moments fleeting,

Till with Christ the Lord I stand.

582 8.6.8.6.

1 Through all the changing scenes of life,

In trouble and in joy,

The praises of my God shall still\
My heart and tongue employ.

2 Oh, magnify the Lord with me,\
With me exalt His name;\
When in distress to Him I called,\
He to my rescue came.

3 The hosts of God encamp around\
The dwellings of the just;\
Deliverance He affords to all\
Who on His succor trust.

4 Oh, make but trial of His love,

Experience will decide

How blest they are, and only they,

Who in His truth confide.

5 Fear Him, ye saints, and you will then

Have nothing else to fear;

Make you His service your delight,

Your wants shall be His care.

583 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 When sorrows and storms are besetting my track,

And Satan is whip’ring “You’d better go back,”

Oh, then I have prov’d it tho’ dark be the way,

A little believing drives clouds right away.

Lord, I believe! Lord, I believe!

Savior, raise my faith in Thee till it can move a mountain.

Lord, I believe! Lord, I believe!

All my doubts I’ll bury in the Fountain.

2 How easy when sailing the sea at a calm

To trust in the strength of Jehovah’s great arm,

But somehow I find when the waves swamp the boat,

It takes some believing to keep things afloat.

3 “I’ll stand to the end,” I have heard people say,

“I’ll fight till I die, and I’ll ne’er run away;”

But when the temptations so fiercely assailed,

They left off believing, and terribly failed.

4 And others there are full of courage and zeal,

Who go to the battle like warriors of steel;

But right in the heat of the conflict with sin,

Instead of believing, they faint and give in.

5 Oh, let us remember, in running our race,

That faith is not feeling, and trust is not trace;

And when all is seeming as black as the night,

We’ll keep on believing, and go on with the fight.

584 6.6.8.6. with repeat

1 Keep up the song of faith,\
However dark the night;\
And as you praise, the Lord will work\
To change your faith to sight.

2 Keep up the song of faith,

And let your heart be strong,

For God delights when faith can praise

Though dark the night and long.

3 Keep up the song of faith,

The foe will hear and flee;

Oh, let not Satan hush your song,

For praise is victory.

4 Keep up the song of faith,

The dawn will break ere long,

And we shall go to meet the Lord,

And join the endless song.

585 11.9.11.9. with chorus

1 O let us rejoice in the Lord evermore,

Though all things around us be trying,\
Though floods of affliction like sea billows roar,\
It’s better to sing than be sighing.

Then rejoice evermore, rejoice evermore,\
It is better to sing than be sighing:\
It is better to live than be dying;\
So let us rejoice evermore.

2 O let us rejoice in the Lord evermore,

When the darts of the tempter are flying,

For Satan still dreads, as he oft did of yore,

Our singing much more than our sighing.

3 O let us rejoice in the Lord evermore,

When sickness upon us is stealing,

No cordial like gladness our strength can restore,

For joy is the fountain of healing.

586 6.5.6.5.D.

1 Like a river, glorious

Is God’s perfect peace,

Over all victorious

In its bright increase;

Perfect, yet it floweth

Fuller every day,

Perfect, yet it groweth

Deeper all the way.

Stayed upon Christ Jesus,

Hearts are fully blest;

Finding, as He promised,

Perfect peace and rest.

2 Hidden in the hollow Of His blessed hand,

Never foe can follow, Never traitor stand;

Not a surge of worry, Not a shade of care,

Not a blast of hurry Touch the spirit there.

3 Every joy or trial Falleth from above,

Traced upon our dial By the Sun of Love.

We may trust Him fully All for us to do;

They who trust Him wholly Find Him wholly true.

587 10.10.

1 Peace, perfect peace, in this dark world of sin?

The blood of Jesus whispers peace within.

2 Peace, perfect peace, by thronging duties pressed?

To do the will of Jesus—this is rest.

3 Peace, perfect peace, with sorrows surging round?

On Jesus’ bosom naught but calm is found.

4 Peace, perfect peace, with loved ones far away?

In Jesus’ keeping we are Safe, and they.

5 Peace, perfect peace, our future all unknown?

Jesus we know, and He is on the throne.

588 9.8.9.8.D. with chorus

1 I’ll sing of the wonderful promise

That Jesus has given to me;

“My strength is made perfect in weakness,

My grace is sufficient for thee.”

And lest my poor heart should forget it,

Or ever forgetful should be,

He still keeps repeating the promise,

My grace is sufficient for thee.

Yes, over and over and over,

My Savior keeps saying to me;

My strength is made perfect in weakness,

My grace is sufficient for thee.

2 His grace is sufficient to save me,

And cleanse me from guilt and from sin;\
Sufficient to sanctify wholly,\
And give me His Spirit within.\
His grace is sufficient for trials,\
No matter how hard they may be,\
This promise stands over against them,\
My grace is sufficient for thee.

3 His grace is sufficient for sickness,

Sustaining and making me whole;

His grace is sufficient when sorrows

Like billows roll over the soul.

His grace is sufficient for service,

It sets us from selfishness free,

And sends us to tell to the tried ones,\
His grace is sufficient for thee.

4 His grace is sufficient to live by,

And should we be summoned to die

‘Twill light up the valley of shadows,

And bear us away to Him nigh.

Or when we shall stand in His vict’ry,\
And Christ in His glory shall see,\
We’ll fall at His footstool confessing,\
Thy grace was sufficient for me.

5 I t is not our grace that’s sufficient,\
But His grace, it ever must be:\
Our graces are transient and changing;\
His grace is unfailing as He.\
And so I am ever repeating\
His wonderful promise to me,\
My strength is made perfect in weakness,\
My grace is sufficient for thee.

589 9.9.9.9.D.

1 God hath not promised skies always blue,

Flower-strewn pathways all our lives through;\
God hath not promised sun without rain,\
Joy without sorrow, peace without pain.

But God hath promised strength for the day,

Rest for the labor, light for the way,

Grace for the trials, help from above,

Unfailing sympathy, undying love.

2 God hath not promised we shall not know

Toil and temptation, trouble and woe;

He hath not told us we shall not bear

Many a burden, many a care.

3 God hath not promised smooth roads and wide,

Swift, easy travel, needing no guide;

Never a mountain, rocky and steep,

Never a river, turbid and deep.

590 9.7.9.7. with chorus

1 The cross that He gave may be heavy,

But it ne’er outweighs His grace;\
The storm that I feared may surround me,\
But it ne’er excludes His face.

The cross is not greater than His grace,\
The storm cannot hide His blessed face;\
I am satisfied to know That with Jesus here below,\
I can conquer every foe.

2 The thorns in my path are not sharper

Than composed His crown for me;\
The cup that I drink not more bitter\
Than He drank in Gethsemane.

3 The light of His love shineth brighter,

As it falls on paths of woe;

The toil of my work groweth lighter,

As I stoop to raise the low.

4 His will I have joy in fulfilling,

As I’m walking in His sight;

My trials more blessings are bringing,

Christ in them is my delight.

591 12.11.12.11.

1 He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater,\
He sendeth more strength when the labors increase,\
To added affliction He addeth His mercy,\
To multiplied trials, His multiplied peace.

2 When we have exhausted our store of endurance,\
When our strength has failed ere the day is half-done,\
When we reach the end of our hoarded resources,\
Our Father’s full giving is only begun.

3 His love has no limit, His grace has no measure,\
His power no boundary known unto men,\
For out of His infinite riches in Jesus,\
He giveth and giveth and giveth again.

592 6.6.8.6.8.8.

1 A little bird I am,\
Shut from the fields of air,\
And in my cage I sit and sing\
To Him who placed me there;\
Well pleased a prisoner to be,\
Because, my God, it pleaseth Thee.

2 Nought have I else to do,\
I sing the whole day long;\
And He whom most I love to please\
Doth listen to my song;\
He caught and bound my wandering wing;\
But still He bends to hear me sing.

3 Thou hast an ear to hear\
A heart to love and bless;\
And though my notes were e’er so rude,\
Thou wouldst not hear the less;\
Because Thou knowest as they fall,\
That love, sweet love, inspires them all.

4 My cage confines me round;\
Abroad I cannot fly;\
But though my wing is closely bound,\
My heart’s at liberty;\
For prison walls cannot control\
The flight, the freedom of the soul.

5 O it is good to soar\
These bolts and bars above!\
To Him whose purpose I adore,\
Whose providence I love;\
And in Thy mighty will to find\
The joy, the freedom of the mind.

593 7.6.7.6.8.8.

1 Strong are the walls around me,

That hold me all the day;

But they who thus have bound me,

Cannot keep God away:

My very dungeon walls are dear,

Because the God I love is here,

2 They know, who thus oppress me,

’Tis hard to be alone;\
But know not One can bless me,\
Who comes through bars and stone;\
He makes my dungeon’s darkness bright,\
And fills my bosom with delight.

3 Thy love, O God, restores me

From sighs and tears to praise;

And deep my soul adores Thee,

Nor thinks of time or place:

I ask no more, in good or ill,

But union with Thy holy will.

4 ’Tis that which makes my treasure,

’Tis that which brings my gain;

Converting woe to pleasure,

And reaping joy from pain.

Oh, ’tis enough, whate’er befall,

To know that God is All in all.

594 10.10.10.10. with chorus

1 Pressed out of measure, pressed beyond all length;

Pressed so intensely, seeming beyond strength;

Pressed in the body, pressed within the soul,

Pressed in the mind till darksome surges roll.

God is my hope and God is my joy;

He is the resurrection life I enjoy.

2 Pressure by foes, and pressure from our friends;

Pressure on pressure, till life nearly ends;

Pressed into knowing none to help but God,

Pressed into loving both the staff and rod.

3 Pressed into liberty where nothing clings,

Pressed into faith for hard and hopeless things;

Pressed into life, a life in Christ the Lord,

Pressed into life, the life of Christ outpoured.

595 11.8.11.8.D. with repeat

1 His angels His countenance always behold,

But never experience His grace;

His saints, while they know His unlimited love,

Have never yet looked on His face.

Yet soon they will rise and His visage behold,

The sight of His glory will gain;

But Mary, beholding His tear-be-dimmed eyes,

Could see His heart’s anguish and pain,

Could see His heart’s anguish and pain.

2 We soon will see Jesus, our Lord, face to face,

We’ll know Him as never before;

But then there’s no need for a hand such as His

To heal a heart broken and sore.

In heaven we’ll offer Him praise without end—

No praying or tears needed there,

Nor ever a burden to roll on our Friend,

Or place for importunate prayer,

Or place for importunate prayer.

3 In heavenly glory, that day we’ll be crowned

And nevermore carry a cross.

’Tis only on earth where our Lord was disowned

We share His rejection and loss.

When entering rest in that morning so fair,

Our anguish and trials will end;

His sorrow and shame we’ll no more with Him share,

Or sacrifice pleasures for Him,

Or sacrifice pleasures for Him.

4 Alas, we are left with few chances to share,

To learn and to taste of His grief.

Yet still for His sake His reproach we may bear—

Such times we can never retrieve.

Reviling and scorn shall we still here bemoan

When soon they no longer will be?

I treasure these temporal blessings I’ve known,

For thus, Lord, I’m made one with Thee,

For thus, Lord, I’m made one with Thee.

5 I long, Lord, to gaze on Thy wonderful face­

’Tis better by far Thee to meet.

But now I would choose Thy dear suffering grace

And not miss such fellowship sweet.

Have mercy on me; fill me, Lord, with Thy love

To live for Thee here at all cost,

Lest earnestly seeking a heaven above

I then regret chances were lost,

I then regret chances were lost.

596 8.8.8.

1 Why should I fear the darkest hour,

Or tremble at the tempter’s power?

Jesus vouchsafes to be my tower.

2 Though hot the fight, why quit the field?

Why must I either fly or yield,

Since Jesus is my mighty shield?

3 When creature comforts fade and die,

Worldlings may weep, but why should I?

Jesus still lives, and still is nigh.

4 Though all the flocks and herds were dead,

My soul a famine need not dread,

For Jesus is my living bread.

5 I know not what may soon betide,

Or how my wants shall be supplied;

But Jesus knows, and will provide.

6 Though sin would fill me with distress,

The throne of grace I dare address,

For Jesus is my righteousness.

7 Though faint my prayers and cold my love,

My steadfast hope shall not remove,

While Jesus intercedes above.

8 Against me earth and hell combine;

But on my side is power divine;

Jesus is all, and He is mine!

597 6.5.6.5.D.

1 In the heart of Jesus There is love for you,

Love most pure and tender, Love most deep and true;

Why should you be lonely, Why for friendship sigh,

When the heart of Jesus Has a full supply?

2 In the mind of Jesus There is thought for you,

Warm as summer sunshine, Sweet as morning dew;

Why should you be fearful, Why take anxious thought,

Since the mind of Jesus Cares for those He bought?

3 In the field of Jesus There is work for you;

Such as even angels Might rejoice to do;

Why stand idly sighing For some life-work grand,

While the field of Jesus Seeks your reaping hand?

4 In the Church of Jesus There’s a place for you;

Glorious, bright, and joyous, Right and peaceful too;

Why then, like a wand’rer, Roam with weary pace,

If the Church of Jesus Holds for you a place?

598 8.8.8.8. (A)

1 How good is the God we adore,

Our faithful, unchangeable Friend;

Whose love is as great as His pow’r,

And knows neither measure nor end.

2 ’Tis Jesus the First and the Last,

Whose Spirit shall guide us safe home:

We’ll praise Him for all that is past,

And trust Him for all that’s to come.

599 8.8.8.5.

1 Praise the Savior, ye who know Him!

Who can tell how much we owe Him?

Gladly let us render to Him

All we are and have.

2 Jesus is the name that charms us;

He for conflicts fits and arms us;

Nothing moves and nothing harms us

When we trust in Him.

3 Trust in Him, ye saints, forever;

He is faithful, changing never;

Neither force nor guile can sever

Those He loves from Him.

4 Keep us, Lord, oh, keep us cleaving

To Thyself and still believing,

Till the hour of our receiving

Promised joys with Thee.

5 Then we shall be where we would be;

Then we shall be what we should be;

Things which are not now, nor could be,

Then shall be our own.

600 9.8.9.8. with chorus

1 O soul, are you weary and troubled?

No light in the darkness you see?

There’s light for a look at the Savior,

And life more abundant and free.

Turn your eyes upon Jesus,

Look full in His wonderful face,

And the things of earth will grow strangely dim,

In the light of His glory and grace.

2 Through death into life everlasting

He passed, and we follow Him there;

O’er us sin no more hath dominion

For more than conqu’rors we are!

3 His Word shall not fail you, He promised;

Believe Him and all will be well;

Then go to a world that is dying,

His perfect salvation to tell!
