# 588 9.8.9.8.D. with chorus

1.  I’ll sing of the wonderful promise

That Jesus has given to me;

“My strength is made perfect in weakness,

My grace is sufficient for thee.”

And lest my poor heart should forget it,

Or ever forgetful should be,

He still keeps repeating the promise,

My grace is sufficient for thee.

Yes, over and over and over,

My Savior keeps saying to me;

My strength is made perfect in weakness,

My grace is sufficient for thee.

2.  His grace is sufficient to save me,

And cleanse me from guilt and from sin;\
Sufficient to sanctify wholly,\
And give me His Spirit within.\
His grace is sufficient for trials,\
No matter how hard they may be,\
This promise stands over against them,\
My grace is sufficient for thee.

3.  His grace is sufficient for sickness,

Sustaining and making me whole;

His grace is sufficient when sorrows

Like billows roll over the soul.

His grace is sufficient for service,

It sets us from selfishness free,

And sends us to tell to the tried ones,\
His grace is sufficient for thee.

4.  His grace is sufficient to live by,

And should we be summoned to die

‘Twill light up the valley of shadows,

And bear us away to Him nigh.

Or when we shall stand in His vict’ry,\
And Christ in His glory shall see,\
We’ll fall at His footstool confessing,\
Thy grace was sufficient for me.

5.  I t is not our grace that’s sufficient,\
But His grace, it ever must be:\
Our graces are transient and changing;\
His grace is unfailing as He.\
And so I am ever repeating\
His wonderful promise to me,\
My strength is made perfect in weakness,\
My grace is sufficient for thee.

