# 595 11.8.11.8.D. with repeat

1.  His angels His countenance always behold,

But never experience His grace;

His saints, while they know His unlimited love,

Have never yet looked on His face.

Yet soon they will rise and His visage behold,

The sight of His glory will gain;

But Mary, beholding His tear-be-dimmed eyes,

Could see His heart’s anguish and pain,

Could see His heart’s anguish and pain.

2.  We soon will see Jesus, our Lord, face to face,

We’ll know Him as never before;

But then there’s no need for a hand such as His

To heal a heart broken and sore.

In heaven we’ll offer Him praise without end—

No praying or tears needed there,

Nor ever a burden to roll on our Friend,

Or place for importunate prayer,

Or place for importunate prayer.

3.  In heavenly glory, that day we’ll be crowned

And nevermore carry a cross.

’Tis only on earth where our Lord was disowned

We share His rejection and loss.

When entering rest in that morning so fair,

Our anguish and trials will end;

His sorrow and shame we’ll no more with Him share,

Or sacrifice pleasures for Him,

Or sacrifice pleasures for Him.

4.  Alas, we are left with few chances to share,

To learn and to taste of His grief.

Yet still for His sake His reproach we may bear—

Such times we can never retrieve.

Reviling and scorn shall we still here bemoan

When soon they no longer will be?

I treasure these temporal blessings I’ve known,

For thus, Lord, I’m made one with Thee,

For thus, Lord, I’m made one with Thee.

5.  I long, Lord, to gaze on Thy wonderful face­

’Tis better by far Thee to meet.

But now I would choose Thy dear suffering grace

And not miss such fellowship sweet.

Have mercy on me; fill me, Lord, with Thy love

To live for Thee here at all cost,

Lest earnestly seeking a heaven above

I then regret chances were lost,

I then regret chances were lost.

