601 11.11.11.11.

1 O eyes that are weary and hearts that are sore,

Look off unto Jesus and sorrrow no more;

The light of His countenance shineth so bright,

That on earth as in heaven, there need be no night.

2 “Looking off unto Jesus,” my spirit is blest;

In the world I have turmoil—in Him I have rest;

The sea of my life all about me may roar,

When I look unto Jesus I hear it no mom.

3 “Looking off unto Jesus,” I go not astray;

My eyes are on Him, and He shows me the way;

The path may seem dark as He leads me along,

But following Jesus I cannot go wrong.

4 “Looking off unto Jesus,” my heart cannot fear,

Its trembling is still when I see Jesus near;

I know that His power my safeguard will be,

For, “Why are you troubled?” He saith unto me.

5 Soon, soon shall I know the full beauty and grace

Of Jesus my Lord when I stand face to face;

I shall know how His love went before me each day,

And wonder that ever my eyes turned away.

602 Irregular Meter

1 Soldier, soldier, fighting in the world’s great strife,\
On thyself relying, battling for thy life;\
Trust thyself no longer, Trust to Christ—He’s stronger;\
I can all things, all things do Through Christ, which strengtheneth me.

2 In your daily duty, standing up for right,\
Are you sometimes weary—heart not always light?\
Doubt your Savior never, This your motto ever:\
I can all things, all things do Through Christ, which strengtheneth me.

3 If your way be weary He will help you through—\
Help you in your troubles and your pleasures too;\
Say, when Satan’s by you; Say, when all things try you:\
I can all things, all things do Through Christ, which strengtheneth me.

4 In a world of trouble, tempted oft to stray,

You need never stumble, Satan cannot stay,

Will but tempt you vainly, If you tell him plainly:

I can all things, all things do Through Christ, which strengtheneth me.

5 Jesus’ power is boundless, boundless as the sea;

He is always able, able to keep me,

Power bring from my weakness, Glory from my meekness:

I can all things, all things do Through Christ, which strengtheneth me.

603 11.10.11.10.

1 “Be all at rest, my soul!” Oh! blessed secret

Of the true life that glorifies thy Lord;

Not always doth the busiest soul best serve Him,

But he who resteth on His faithful word.

2 “Be all at rest!” for rest is highest service;

To the still heart God doth His secrets tell;

Thus shalt thou learn to wait, and watch, and labor,

Strengthened to bear, since Christ in thee doth dwell.

3 “Be all at rest!” for rest alone becometh

The soul that casts on Him its every care;

“Be all at rest!” so shall thy life proclaim Him

A God who worketh and who heareth prayer.

4 “Be all at rest!” so shalt thou be an answer

To those who question, “Who is God, and where?”

For God is rest, and where He dwells is stillness,

And they who dwell in Him that rest shall share.

604 10.10.10.10.

1 “Consider Him,” let Christ thy pattern be,

And know that He hath apprehended thee

To share His very life, His pow’r divine,

And in the likeness of thy Lord to shine.

2 “Consider Him”; so shalt thou, day by day,

Seek out the lowliest place, and therein stay,

Content to pass away, a thing of nought,

That glory to the Father’s name be brought.

3 Shrink not, O child of God, but fearless go

Down into death with Jesus; thou shalt know

The power of an endless life begin,

With glorious liberty from self and sin.

4 “Consider Him,” and thus thy life shall be

Filled with self-sacrifice and purity;

God will work out in thee the pattern true,

And Christ’s example ever keep in view.

5 “Consider Him,” and as you run the race,

Keep ever upward looking in His face;

And thus transformed, illumined thou shalt be,

And Christ’s own image shall be seen in thee.

605 6.5.6.5.D.

1 Take time to be holy, Speak oft with Thy Lord,

Abide in Him always, And feed on His Word.

Wait thou in His presence, Submissive and meek,

Forgetting in nothing His blessing to seek.

2 Take time to be holy, The world rushes on;

Spend much time in secret With Jesus alone.

By looking to Jesus Like Him thou shalt be;

Thy friends, in thy conduct, His likeness shall see.

3 Take time to be holy, Let Him be thy guide;

And run not before Him Whatever betide;

In joy or in sorrow Still follow thy Lord,

And, looking to Jesus, Still trust in His Word.

4 Take time to be holy, Be calm in thy soul,

Each thought and each temper Beneath His control.

Thus led by His Spirit To fountains of love,

Thou soon shalt be fitted For service above.

606 13.11.13.7. with chorus

1 Would you live for Jesus and be always pure and good?

Would you walk with Him within the narrow road?

Would you have Him bear your burden, carry all your load?

Let Him have His way with thee.

His power can make you what you ought to be,

His blood can cleanse your heart and make you free,

His love can fill your soul, and you will see

‘Twas best for Him to have His way with thee.

2 Would you have Him make you free, and follow at His call?

Would you know the peace that comes by giving all?

Would you have Him save you, So that you can never fall?

Let Him have His way with thee.

3 Would you in His kingdom Find a place of constant rest’?

Would you prove Him true In providential test?

Would you in His service Labor always at your best?

Let Him have His way with thee.

607 6.5.6.5.D.

1 Can you be obedient To the Lord of all,\
Though the earth should totter, Though the heav’ns should fall?\
Face e’en a disaster With a faith-filled heart,\
Knowing naught can harm him Who with Christ will start?

2 Can you be obedient To the Lord you serve,\
Never even flinch, friend, Never even swerve;\
Though your next step onward Seem to lead to death?\
Can you then obey Him Without bated breath?

3 Can you trust your Leader When He bids you go

Right into a battle With a mighty foe?

Can you step up briskly And with joy obey?

Can you fight the battle, Till the end of day?

4 Can you? Then beloved, Christ just waits for you;

Listen for His orders, Glad His will to do;

Then when soldiers muster At the set of sun,

And your name is mentioned, Christ will say, “Well done.”

608 11.8.11.8. with chorus

1 Rejoice in the Lord! Oh, let His mercy cheer;\
He sunders the hands that enthrall;

Redeemed by His blood, why should we ever fear,

Since Jesus is our all in all?

If God be for us, if God be for us, if God be for us,

Who can be against us?

Who? who? who?

Who can be against us, against us?

2 Be strong in the Lord! rejoicing in His might,

Be loyal and true day by day;

When evils assail, be valiant for the right,

And He will be our strength and stay.

3 Confide in His Word, His promises so sure;

In Christ they are yea and amen;

Though earth pass away, they ever shall endure,

’Tis written o’er and o’er again.

4 Abide in the Lord, secure in His control,

’Tis life everlasting begun;

To pluck from His hand the weakest, trembling soul,

It never, never can be done!

609 8.7.8.7.D. with chorus

1 Share thy handful with the stranger;

Bid the Prophet to thy board;

No resources are in danger

Whose exchequer is the Lord.

Daily new demands await thee,

Daily new supplies are sent;

He alone who doth create thee

Can secure thy nourishment.

Giving, giving, o’er and o’er,

Still you’ll find one handful more.

Loving is the truest living;

God will double all thy store.

2 Trust! the Lord will not deny thee,

Ev’ry longing shall be stilled;

Trust! the cruse will yet supply thee,

Never empty, never filled.

Should the lilies lack apparel?

Should the ravens cry in vain?

Even then the widow’s barrel

Shall its handful still retain.

3 Why shouldst thou forecast the morrow?

Take with gladness while you may;\
Why, dismayed, forbodings borrow?\
See! thou hast enough today;\
’Tis by loving that thou livest,\
Spending doth not waste thy store,\
Tho’ it seems the last thou givest,\
There is, aye, one handful more.

610 6.6.8.6.

1 Rise up, O men of God!

Have done with lesser things;

Give heart and soul and mind and strength

To serve the King of kings.

2 Rise up, O men of God!\
His kingdom tarries long;\
Bring in the day of brotherhood\
And end the night of wrong.

3 Rise up, O men of God!

The Church for you doth wait,

Her strength unequal to her task:

Rise up, and make her great.

4 Lift high the cross of Christ,

Tread where His feet have trod;

As brothers of the Son of man,

Rise up, O men of God!

611 6.6.6.6.8.8.

1 Ye sleeping souls, awake

From dreams of carnal ease!

Your couch of sloth forsake;

Nor seek the flesh to please;

Far from this land of shadows flee,

And march towards eternity.

2 Aside each burden lay,

That does your course restrain,

And onward urge your way

From nature, self, and sin;

Prepare the midnight cry to hear,

“The Bridegroom comes, behold Him near!”

3 Arise, go forth to find

Your true and faithful Lord;

And leaving all behind,

In spirit hear His word.

The pure in heart His presence feel,

’Tis them He doth Himself reveal.

4 Within your souls retired,

His precious love enjoy;

And with His Spirit tlr’d,

Your time in prayer employ;

And purchase oil, whilst yet you may,

Lest it should fail you on that day.

5 Give God alone Thy heart,

For vain is all disguise.

O Lord Thy love impart,

The oil that makes us wise!

To light our souls with holy fire,

Which shall not, e’en in death, expire.

6 Jesus, Thyself excite

Our feet to run the race—

To watch, and pray, and fight,

Till we behold Thy face!

Nor let us ever tire, nor rest,

Till with Thy full possession blest!

612 8.7.8.7.

1 Rise, my soul, thy God directs thee;

Stranger hands no more impede;

Pass thou on, His strength protects thee,

Strength that has the captive freed.

2 Is the wilderness before thee,

Desert lands where drought abides?

Heavenly springs shall there restore thee,

Fresh from God’s exhaustless tides.

3 Light divine surrounds thy going,\
God Himself shall mark thy way;\
Secret blessings, richly flowing,\
Lead to everlasting day.

4 God, thine everlasting portion,\
Feeds thee with the Mighty’s meat;\
Saved from Egypt’s hard extortion,\
Egypt’s food no more to eat.

5 Art thou weaned from Egypt’s pleasures?\
God in secret shall thee keep;\
There unfold His hidden treasures,\
There His love’s exhaustless deep.

6 In the desert God will teach thee\
What the God that thou hast found—\
Patient, gracious, powerful, holy;\
All His grace shall there abound.

7 On to Canaan’s rest still wending,\
E’en thy wants and woes shall bring\
Suited grace from high descending;\
Thou shalt taste of mercy’s spring.

8 Though thy way be long and dreary,

Eagle strength He’ll still renew;

Garments fresh, and feet unweary,

Tell how God hath brought thee through.

9 When to Canaan’s long-loved dwelling

Love divine thy feet shall bring,

Thou, with shouts of triumph swelling,

Zion’s songs in rest shall sing.

613 6.6.8.6.

1 “On toward the goal!” Press on! Alone, yet unafraid;

He cut the path, who beckons thee, On then, and undismayed.

2 “On toward the goal!” Press on! The eyes that are a flame

Are watching thee, what then are men? What matter praise, or blame?

3 “On toward the goal!” Press on! Look not behind thee now,

When just ahead lies His “Well done,” And crowns await thy brow.

4 “On toward the goal!” Press on! Blind, deaf and sometimes dumb

Along the blood-marked, uphill way, Hard after Christ, press on!

614 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 Press on, press on toward the goal—

The all-inclusive Christ.\
To gain the prize of God’s high call,\
Press on, press on to Christ!

Pressing on! Pressing on!\
Pressing on! Hallelujah for the prize We’re pressing on! On and on!\
To gain the Christ of God!

2 Press on, press on, count all things loss,

All that is gain to us,

To win the prize, the Christ of God,

Is far more glorious!

3 Press on, press on to know the Lord

And resurrection power—

Oh, this is our supreme reward,

E’en in the suffering hour!

4 Press on, press on, this one thing do,

Forget the things behind;

Press onward to the Christ before,

Press onward with this mind!

615 11.9.11.9. with chorus

1 There’s a race for us to run—Hallelujah,\
And a way for us the race to win.

To all those who have begun—Hallelujah,

God has spoken, “Look away to Him!”

Look away! O look away!

Look to Jesus now today!

Look away from everything unto Jesus,

Look away from everything to Him!

2 Look away from all around—Hallelujah,

Look away from all the strife and din;

Look away where peace is found—Hallelujah,

Look away from everything to Him.

3 Look away from fickle soul—Hallelujah,

Look away from failing self within;

Look away toward the goal—Hallelujah,

Look away from everything to Him.

4 Look away from all the past—Hallelujah,

Look away from both the good and sin;

To the living One hold fast—Hallelujah,

Look away from everything to Him.

5 Look away into His face—Hallelujah,

He who’ll finish what He did begin.

O what grace to run the race—Hallelujah—

We obtain by looking off to Him!

616 6.5.6.5.D.

1 “Forward!” be our watchword, Steps and voices joined;\
Seek the things before us, Not a look behind;\
‘Burns the fiery pillar At our army’s head;\
Who shall dream of shrinking, By our Captain led?\
Forward through the desert, Through the toil and fight;\
Heaven’s Kingdom waits us, Forward into light.

2 Glories upon glories Hath our God prepared,\
By the souls that love Him, One day to be shared:\
Eye hath not beheld them, Ear hath never heard;\
Nor of these hath uttered Thought or speech or word;\
Forward, marching forward Where the kingdom’s bright,\
Till the veil be lifted, Till our faith be sight!

617 7.6.7.6.D.

1 Stand up! stand up for Jesus! Ye soldiers of the cross;

Lift high His royal banner, It must not suffer loss:

From vict’ry unto vict’ry His army shall He lead,

Till every foe is vanquished And Christ is Lord indeed.

2 Stand up! stand up for Jesus! The trumpet call obey;

Forth to the mighty conflict In this His glorious day.

Ye that are men, now serve Him Against unnumbered foes;

Let courage rise with danger, And strength to strength oppose.

3 Stand up! stand up for Jesus! Stand in His strength alone;

The arm of flesh will fail you; Ye dare not trust your own.

Put on the Gospel armor, And, watching unto prayer,

Where duty calls, or danger, Be never wanting there.

4 Stand up! stand up for Jesus! The strife will not be long:

This day the noise of battle, The next the victor’s song;

To him that overcometh A crown of life shall be;

He, with the King of glory, Shall reign eternally.

618 6.5.6.5.D. with chorus

1 Onward Christian soldiers!

Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus

Going on before. Christ, the royal Master, Leads against the foe;

Forward into battle, See, His banners go!

Onward, Christian soldiers!

Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus, Going on before.

2 At the name of Jesus Satan’s host doth flee;

On then, Christian soldiers, On to victory!

Hell’s foundations quiver At the shout of praise:

Brothers, lift your voices, Loud your anthems raise!

3 Like a mighty army Moves the Church of God:

Brothers, we are treading Where the saints have trod;

We are not divided, All one Body we—

One in faith and Spirit, One eternally.

4 Crowns and thrones may perish, Kingdoms rise and wane;

But the Church of Jesus Constant will remain.

Gates of hell can never’ Gainst the Church prevail;

We have Christ’s own promise, Which can never fail.

5 Onward, then, ye people! Join our happy throng;

Blend with ours your voices In the triumph song.

Glory, laud and honor Unto Christ, the King;

This through countless ages Men and angels sing.

619 7.6.7.6.D. with chorus

1 I dare not be defeated With Calvary in view,

Where Jesus conquered Satan, Where all His foes He slew;

Come, Lord, and give the vision To nerve me for the fight,

Make me an overcomer Clothed with Thy Spirit’s might.

A victor, a victor! Because of Calvary.

Make me an overcomer, A conqu’ror, a conqu’ror, Lord, in Thee.

2 I dare not be defeated Since Christ, my conquering King

Has called me to the battle Which He did surely win.

Come, Lord, and give me courage, Thy conquering Spirit give,

Make me an overcomer, In power within me live.

3 I dare not be defeated, When Jesus leads me on

To press through hellish regions To share with Him His Throne;

Come, Lord, and give Thy soldier The power to wield the sword,

Make me an overcomer Through Thine inerrant Word.

4 I dare not be defeated, Just at the set of sun,

When Jesus waits to whisper, “Well done, beloved, well done”;

Come, Lord, bend from the Glory, On me Thy Spirit cast,

Make me an overcomer, A victor to the last.

620 8.8.8.8.

1 Fight the good fight with all thy might!

Christ is thy strength, and Christ thy right;

Lay hold on life, and it shall be

Thy joy and crown eternally.

2 Run the straight race through God’s good grace,

Lift up thine eyes, and seek His face;

Life with its way before us lies,

Christ is the path, and Christ the prize.

3 Cast care aside, lean on thy Guide;

His boundless mercy will provide;

Trust, and thy trusting soul shah prove

Christ is its life, and Christ its love.

4 Faint not nor fear, His arms are near,

He changeth not, and thou art dear;

Only believe, and thou shalt see

That Christ is all in all to thee.

621 9.7.9.7.8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Conquering now and still to conquer,

Rideth a King in His might,

Leading the host of all the faithful

Into the midst of the fight;

See them with courage advancing,

Clad in their brilliant array,

Shouting the name of their Leader,

Hear them exultingly say:

“Not to the strong is the battle,

Not to the swift is the race;

Yet to the true and the faithful

Vict’ry is promised through grace.”

2 Conquering now and still to conquer,

Who is this wonderful King?

Whence are the armies which He leadeth

While of His glory they sing?

He is our Lord and Redeemer,

Savior and Monarch divine;

They are the stars that forever

Bright in His kingdom will shine.

3 Conquering now and still to conquer,

Jesus, Thou Ruler of all,

Thrones and their scepters all shall perish,

Crowns and their splendor shall fall,

Yet shall the armies Thou leadest

Faithful and true to the last,

Find in Thy kingdom eternal

Rest, when their warfare is past.

622 7.6.7.6.D.

1 ’Tis easy when the morning

Appears at last to view

To praise thy strong Redeemer

Who burst the bondage through,

But ’tis the praise at midnight

That gives the foe alarm,

That glorifies thy Savior,

And bares His strong right arm.

2 If thou wouldst be a conqueror,

Yea, more than conqueror thou,

If thou wilt shout in triumph

And claim the victory now;

The prison-doors will open,

The dungeon gleam with light,

And sin-chained souls around thee

Shall see thy Lord’s great might.

623 8.7.8.7.D.

1 To the foe my word is always, “No,”

To the Father it is “Yes,”

That His plan and all His counsel

Be accomplished with success;

When Thine orders I’m obeying,

Grant me, Lord, authority

To fulfill Thy plan eternal

Thru the Spirit’s power in me.

2 To the foe my word is always, “No,”

To the Father it is, “Yes”;

’Tis my attitude eternal;

May the Lord protect and bless,

Lest while walking in obedience

Satan undermine the way;

When I’m list’ning to Thine orders,

Grant me mercy, Lord, I pray.

3 To the foe my word is always, “No,”

To the Father it is, “Yes”;

I completely would obey Him,

Though deep suff’ring may oppress.

If the Lord will save and keep me,

As I forward press with Him,

Then no trials shall prevent me,

Nor will opposition grim.

624 8.6.8.6.D. with chorus

1 Encamped along the hills of light,

Ye Christian soldiers rise,

And press the battle ere the night

Shall veil the glowing skies;

Against the foe in vales below

Let all our strength be hurled;

Faith is the victory, we know,

That overcomes the world.

Faith is the victory! Faith is the victory!

O glorious victory, That overcomes the world.

2 His banner over us is love,

Our sword the Word of God;

We tread the road the saints before

With shouts of triumph trod.

By faith, they like a whirlwind’s breath,

Swept on o’er every field;

The faith by which they conquered death

Is still our shining shield.

3 On every hand the foe we find

Drawn up in dread array;

Let tents of ease be left behind,

And onward to the fray.

Salvation’s helmet on each head,

With truth all girt about,

The earth shall tremble ‘neath our tread,

And echo with our shout.

4 To him that overcomes the foe,

White raiment shall be giv’n;

Before the angels he shall know

His name confessed in heav’n;

Then onward from the hills of light,

Our hearts with love aflame,

We’ll vanquish all. the hosts of night,

In Jesus’ conqu’ring name.

625 7.7.7.7.

1 In the Overcomer’s Name Be an overcomer too!

Stand and put the foe to shame All the livelong battle through!

2 Jesus is the Name to sound, Name to rally fainting hearts!

To recapture “forfeit” ground, Lost awhile through Satan’s arts.

3 Backward drive the Evil One! Force him out of every hold;

Smite until the sinking sun Sets upon the warrior bold!

4 In the Overcomer’s Name Be an overcomer too!

Stand and put the foe to shame All the livelong battle through!

626 Irregular Meter

In the name of Jesus,

In the name of Jesus, we have the victory.

In the name of Jesus,

In the name of Jesus, demons will have to flee.

Who can tell what God can do?

Who can tell of His love for you?

In the name of Jesus, Jesus, we have the victory.

627 11.10.11.10. with repeat

1 We rest on Thee, our Shield and our Defender;

We go not forth alone against the foe;

Strong in Thy strength,

safe in Thy keeping tender,

We rest on Thee,

and in Thy Name we go.

2 Yea, in Thy Name, O Captain of salvation!

In Thy dear Name,

all other names above;

Jesus our Righteousness,

our sure Foundation,

Our Prince of glory and our King of love.

3 We go in faith, our own great weakness feeling,

And needing more each day

Thy grace to know:

Yet from our hearts a song of triumph pealing;

We rest on Thee,

and in Thy Name we go.

4 We rest on Thee,

our Shield and our Defender:

Thine is the battle,

Thine shall be the praise

When reigning in the Kingdom of Thy splendor,

Victors, we rest with Thee, Through endless days.

628 8.6.8.6.D.

1 The Son of God goes forth to war, A kingly crown to gain;

His blood-red banner streams afar: Who follows in His train?

Who best can drink his cup of woe, Triumphant over pain,

Who patient bears his cross below, He follows in His train.

2 The martyr first, whose eagle eye Could pierce beyond the grave,

Who saw his Master in the sky, And called to Him to save:

Like Him, with pardon on his tongue, In midst of mortal pain,

He prayed for them that did the wrong: Who follows in his train?

3 A glorious band, the chosen few

On whom the Spirit came,

Twelve valiant saints, their hope they knew,

And mocked the cross and flame.

They met the tyrant’s brandished steel,

The lion’s gory mane,

They bowed their necks, the death to feel:

Who follows in their train?

4 A noble army, men and boys,

The matron and the maid,

Around the Savior’s throne rejoice,

In robes of light arrayed.

They climbed by strength divine from heaven,

Through peril, toil, and pain:

O God, to us may grace be given

To follow in their train.

629 Irregular Meter

1 A mighty Fortress is our God,

A Bulwark never failing;

Our Helper He amid the flood

Of mortal ills prevailing:

For still our ancient foe Doth seek to work us woe;

His craft and power are great,

And, armed with cruel hate,

On earth is not his equal.

2 Did we in our own strength confide,

Our striving would be losing;

Were not the right The Man on our side,

The Man of Gods’s own choosing:

Dost ask who that may be?

Christ Jesus, it is He;

Lord Sabaoth His Name,

From age to age the same,

And He must win the battle.

3 And though this world, with devils filled,

Should threaten to undo us,

We will not fear, for God hath willed

His truth to triumph through us:

The Prince of Darkness grim,

We tremble not for him;

His rage we can endure,

For lo! his doom is sure,

One little word shall fell him.

4 That word above all earthly powers,

No thanks to them, abideth;

The Spirit and the gifts are ours

Through Him who with us sideth:

Let goods and kindred go,

This mortal life also;

The body they may kill:

God’s truth abideth still,

His Kingdom is forever.

630 8.6.8.6.D.

1 The name of Jesus is our stand,

It is our victory;

Not on ourselves do we rely,

But, mighty Lord, on Thee.

Our weapons are not arms of flesh,

But ours the Spirit’s sword,

And God’s whole armor putting on,

We battle in the Lord.

2 Behold, the foe doth meet and plot,

Stand firm in one accord!

Though war be fierce and darkness thick,

Resist him in the Lord!

If one thru fear should backward turn,

He undermines the rest.

Oh, do not let your brothers down,

Nor by you be distressed.

3 The devil knows his time is short,

He is the more enraged,

And by his wiles would weaken us

Before the battle’s waged.

The trials now more numerous are,

The suff’ring e’en more sore,

The force of hell opposing us

More dreadful than before.

4 What should our posture be today

In such a desperate hour?

Should we our ease and pleasure seek

And let the foe devour?

Or with increasing conflict strong,

Courageous to endure?

’Tis here that life or death is won!

Who will God’s praise secure?

5 For Christ the Lord we then would stand,

He is the Conqueror!

For Him we would endure the pain

Until the fight is o’er.

The hour of triumph soon we’ll see—

The Lord will come again;

If now we suffer for His sake,

Then we with Him shall reign.

631 6.6.8.6.D.

1 Soldiers of Christ, arise,

And put your armor on,

Strong in the strength which God supplies,

Through His eternal Son;

Strong in the Lord of Hosts,

And in His mighty pow’r,

Who in the strength of Jesus trusts

Is more than conqueror.

2 Stand then in His great might,

With all His strength endued;

And take, to arm you for the fight,

The panoply of God,

That, having all things done,

And all your conflicts past,

Ye may o’ercome through Christ alone,

And stand complete at last.

3 Leave no unguarded place,

No weakness of the soul,

Take every virtue, every grace,

And fortify the whole.

To keep your armor bright

Attend with constant care,

Still walking in your Captain’s sight

And watching unto prayer.

4 Pray, without ceasing pray,

Your Captain gives the word;

His summons cheerfully obey,

And call upon the Lord:

To God your every want

In instant prayer display;

Pray always; pray, and never faint;

Pray, without ceasing pray.

5 From strength to strength go on;

Wrestle, and fight, and pray;

Tread all the powers of darkness down,

And win the well-fought day:

Still let the Spirit cry

In all His soldiers, “Come!”

Till Christ the Lord descend from high,

And take the conquerors home.

632 Irregular Meter

1 O Lord, to conflict new

You daily call your servant;

With joy and spirits fervent

We rise to follow You.

Lead us to battle too,

We are Your soldiers true.

Our hands empow’r, Our hearts enflame!

We’ll overcome in Jesus’ name,

We’ll overcome in Jesus’ name!

Our hands empow’r, our hearts enflame!

2 Fully equip us, Lord,

With faith and perseverance,

With wisdom and adherence,

With zeal and love outpoured;

Set us on fire, O Lord,

To win the great reward.

3 We lift up firm and high

The Cross, our banner glorious.

The enemy notorious

By Blood we dare defy.

To self the Cross apply,

On Christ alone rely.

4 Wrestle, suffer and pray!

The end shall be victorious.

The promised crown all-glorious

We shall receive one day.

Wrestle, suffer and pray!

We’ll reign with Christ for aye.

633 8.8.8.8.

1 With all the pow’r in heav’n and earth

Our resurrected Lord’s endued;

If we unite and live by Him,

The enemy will be subdued.

2 In Jesus’ name we must declare

That we shall overcome the foe;

We draw authority from Him

The serpent’s head to crush below.

3 No matter what, thou mountain high,

In heav’n or earth, where’er thou art,

At any cost we’ll level thee,

In Jesus’ name thou must depart!

4 Faith orders thee “Remove from here,

And be thou cast into the sea!”

We should, we must, we can, we will,

Fulfill God’s purpose faithfully.

634 6.6.8.6.D.

1 Conflict today is fierce, The strength of Satan more;

The cry of battle calling now Is louder than before.

The rebel voice of hell E’en stronger now becomes;

But list, the midnight cry resounds, Behold, I quickly come!

2 Trials more bitter grow, The fighting doth enlarge;

Hell’s forces rally all their pow’rs And gather for the charge.

Yet while we wait and watch And feel the war severe,

We hear the joyful song ring out, Jesus, the Lord, is near!

3 ’Tis harder at the end The word to testify,

For Satan fights with all his pow’r Our witness to defy.

Much greater strength we need The foe to overcome;

How happy when the Lord we see And all our sighing’s done!

4 Who then will forward go Strong in His mighty power?

Who then will firmly trust the Lord Until the vict’ry hour;

Till with the conqu’rors blest, The triumph song’s begun?

That man will then rejoice to hear, Behold, I quickly come!

5 Who then will choose God’s best, And take the narrow track,

Though passing thru the wildest storms, Yet never turning back?

Who now will dare press on, Enduring pain and fear?

All such will then rejoice to see Jesus, the Lord, is near!

6 Though deep the darkness be We still would onward go,

Till we the day of rapture greet And glory ‘round shall glow.

’Tis there we’ll see the Lord, And Satan overcome;

The overcomers will rejoice, Jesus, the Lord, has come!

635 8.5.8.5.D.

1 Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, Tell with every breath,

That the Savior still is conqu’ror Over sin and death.

Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, Tell where’er you go,

That the Lord is still the conqu’ror, Over every foe.

2 Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, Pain and sickness flee,

When we plead the mighty victory Won on Calvary.

3 Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, Therefore do and dare;

Go wherever Jesus sends you In prevailing prayer.

4 Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, No defeat nor fear

Evermore must dim thy vision! Christ the way will clear.

5 Hallelujah! Christ is Victor, Soon His voice shall ring,

“Come ye conquerors, come up hither, Join thy conquering King.”

636 7.6.7.6.D.

1 Charge, soldiers, charge in battle! The conflict has begun;

Thy battle song triumphant— “The victory is won!”

Hell’s power must be vanquished And Satan’s forces strewn;

The Captain of the Army Will come and triumph soon.

2 Charge, soldiers, charge in battle! And gaze upon thy Lord;

If thou wilt fight His battle, The throne is thy reward.

This war is of the spirit, Not fought on earthly ground;

The Lord well knows the foe is near, Encircling us around.

3 Charge, soldiers, charge in battle! Christ’s throne awaiteth thee;

His resurrection power Will lift thy spirit free.

Through Him thou wilt have power, The foe to battle down;

Through Him thou wilt the triumph sing, And wear the victor’s crown.

4 Charge, soldiers, charge in battle! Thou shalt ascend the throne;

A feast He is preparing, How happy thou to own.

With Him we’re resurrected Above the battle din;

Transcending all that binds us, We’re far above in Him.

5 Charge, soldiers, charge in battle! Thou art the royal heir;

The Lord from dust did choose thee, That thou His kingdom share.

Thou hast no part in darkness, Thy future, O how bright;

With Christ to dwell forever And in His love delight.

6 With joyful shouts charge forward! The kingdom is before;

Upon the peak of Zion We’ll sing, the battle o’er.

The Lamb has won the victory! The Lamb is on the throne!

With shouts of joy we praise Him, For He must overcome.

637 10.10.10.10.

1 And is it so! I shall be like Thy Son?

Is this the grace which He for me has won?

Father of glory—thought beyond all thought!

In glory, to His own blest likeness brought!

2 Oh, Jesus, Lord, who loved me like to Thee?

Fruit of Thy work, with Thee, too, there to see

Thy glory, Lord, while endless ages roll,

Myself the prize and travail of Thy soul.

3 Yet it must be: Thy love had not its rest

Were Thy redeemed not with Thee fully blest;

That love that gives not as the world, but shares

All it possesses with its loved co-heirs.

4 Nor I alone; Thy loved ones, all complete

In glory, round Thee there with joy shall meet;

All like Thee, for Thy glory like Thee, Lord,

Object supreme of all, by all adored.

638 8.8.8.8.8.8. with repeat

1 ”A little while!” Our Lord shall come,

And we shall wander here no more;

He’ll take us to our Father’s home,

Where He for us has gone before—

To dwell with Him, to see His face,

And sing the glories of His grace.

To dwell with Him, to see His face,

And sing the glories of His grace.

2 ""A little while”—He’ll come again;

Let us the precious hours redeem;

Our only grief to give Him pain,

Our joy to serve and follow Him.

Watching and ready may we be,

As those that wait their Lord to see.

(Repeat last two lines of each stanza)

3 ""A little while”—’twill soon be past,

Why should we shun the promised cross?

O let us in His footsteps haste,

Counting for Him all else but loss;

For how will recompense His smile

The suff’rings of this “little while.”

4 ""A little while”—come, Savior, come!

For Thee Thy bride has tarried long;

Take Thy poor waiting pilgrims home,

To sing the new eternal song,

To see Thy glory, and to be

In ev’rything conformed to Thee!

639 Irregular Meter

1 Jesus is coming to earth again,

What if it were today?

Coming in power and love to reign,

What if it were today?

Coming to claim His chosen Bride,

All the redeemed and purified,

Over this whole earth scattered wide,

What if it were today?

Glory, glory! Joy to my heart ‘twill bring;

Glory, glory! When we shall crown Him King;

Glory, glory! Haste to prepare the way;

Glory, glory! Jesus will come some day.

2 Satan’s dominion will soon be o’er,

O, that it were today!

Sorrow and sighing shall be no more,

O, that it were today!

Then shall the dead in Christ arise,

Caught up to meet Him in the skies,

When shall these glories meet our eyes?

What if it were today?

3 Faithful and true would He find us here,

If He should come today?

Watching in gladness and not in fear,

If He should come today?

Signs of His coming multiply,

Morning light breaks in eastern sky,

Watch, for that time is drawing nigh,

What if it were today?

640 Irregular Meter

1 Our Lord is now rejected, And by the world disowned,

By the many still neglected, And by the few enthroned;

But soon He’ll come in glory! The hour is drawing nigh,

For the crowning day is coming By-and-by.

O the crowning day is coming, Is coming by-and-by,

When our Lord shall come in power And glory from on high.

O the glorious sight will gladden Each waiting, watchful eye,

In the crowning day that’s coming By-and-by.

2 The heavens shall glow with splendor,

But brighter far than they,

The saints shall shine in glory,

As Christ shall them array.

The beauty of the Savior

Shall dazzle every eye,

In the crowning day that’s coming By-and-by.

3 Our pain shall then be over,

We’ll sin and sigh no more,

Behind us all of sorrow,

And naught but joy before,

A joy in our Redeemer,

As we to Him are nigh,

In the crowning day that’s coming By-and-by.

4 Let all that look for hasten

The coming joyful day,

By earnest consecration,

To walk the narrow way;

By gathering in the lost ones,

For whom our Lord did die,

For the crowning day that’s coming By-and-by.

641 11.10.11.10.11.10.11.12.

1 Since long ago at Bethany we parted,

Within my heart there is a ceaseless void;

How can I take my harp down from the willow?

How can my songs without Thee be enjoyed?

And when at night I’m keeping lonely vigil—

Grown numb alike to sorrow and to cheer—

Then I recall the promise of Thy coming,

But sigh: O Lord, why, why Thou dost not yet appear?

2 Thy manger wakes the thought: I too am homeless;

Thy cross strips earthly pleasures from my soul;

Thy coming bids me seek a better country,

For Thou Thyself art now my final goal.

Since Thou art gone my joy has lost its flavor,

My song the sweetness I would fain convey.

Since Thou art gone the sense of void o’erwhelms me.

Oh, how I long that Thou wilt come and not delay.

3 Though even now I know Thy loving presence,

Yet in my heart there’s still a sense of lack.

Enlightening and tenderest sustaining

Can no more satisfy: I want Thee back.

Despite Thy peace within, I still feel lonely;

Despite Thy joy there still remains a sigh;

When I feel most content, the silent yearning

To see Thee face to face becomes an uttered cry.

4 What exile cannot but desire his homeland

And long his people once again to greet?

What soul on alien soil forgets his kindred?

What parted lovers never yearn to meet?

O Lord, how can these earthly loves and pleasures

With all the joy of Thy return compare?

Then, if I cannot here behold Thy countenance,

What can I do but sigh till Thou, my Lord, appear?

5 Could’st Thou, O Lord, forget Thy word of promise

Soon to return and take me unto Thee?

Yet day by day and year by year I’ve waited

And still I wait, and no return I see!

Remember, Lord, the years I have been waiting

While Thy dear footsteps linger far away.

How long? How long? Oh! must I wait still longer

Till Thou shalt come again in glorious array?

6 From generation unto generation

Thy saints have come and gone, but have not seen

Thy glorious promise pass into fulfilment.

How long, how very long the time has been!

Why cannot we, dear Lord, discern Thy footsteps?

Why are the heavens still so closely sealed?

Oh! must our waiting be prolonged still further

Before Thou in Thy matchless splendor art revealed?

7 Lord, I recall the many years I’ve waited

For Thy return—yet, Lord, not I alone,

But Thy dear saints through many generations—

Beseeching Thee to come back for Thine own.

To countless tears and countless fervent pleadings,

By Thine appearing haste to make reply.

Oh, may Thou come, the echo of the ages,

Come, come and answer now this mighty corp’rate cry!

642 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 Since Thy departure from Olivet’s Mountain,

Why is Thy coming again so delayed?

Thru the long years we have longed for Thy coming;

Hast Thou not heard all the prayers that we’ve prayed?

Come Thou, come now; Lord, for Thy coming we yearn;

All our desire is Thy promised returning,

Oh, may Thou quickly return.

2 Beloved Lord, since the year Thou ascended

Everything here has been tasteless and dry;

Often in praying and often in watching,

In every movement, for Thee, Lord, we sigh.

3 Scenes although lovely, yet when will we meet Thee?

Birds and the flowers fair beauty embrace;

All are delightsome, but none satisfy me,

For I am longing for Thy loving face.

4 Lord, we’re impatient awaiting Thy coming,

We do not know how much longer ‘twill be;

From every sunrise to every bright sunset

Hope we each moment Thy coming to see.

5 Whene’er ’tis raining, or strong winds are blowing,

Whene’er the moon shines, or rises the sea,

We ever hope to discover Thy coming;

How disappointed when no sign of Thee!

6 If it were not for the bidding Thou gav’st us,

We’d be discouraged, Thy service we’d shirk;

But Thou dost want us while waiting Thy coming,

For Thee to live and in diligence work.

7 Oh Lord, remember the days have been lengthened

Since Thou hast promised ere going away;

We hope and hope and are endlessly hoping,

That Thou wilt come. Canst Thou come e’en today?

643 8.6.8.6.D.

1 My King will soon come back again,

The sky be filled with Him;

The universe to be redeemed

Will see His light therein.

The Lord will soon fulfill His plan,

His footsteps now I hear;

His glorious frame I faintly see

Beginning to appear.

2 I’m longing for His presence blest

And dare not slothful be

While waiting for my Lord’s return,

His own dear self to see.

My only hope—that He may come

And change my faith to sight;

There is no other joy on earth

Which gives my heart delight.

3 My heart is always with Himself,

My eyes are heavenward,

My lips would utter nothing else

Than meeting with my Lord.

The coming of the Lord draws nigh,

His coming is for me;

His promise ever standeth firm

And soon fulfilled I’ll see.

4 My Savior, all Thy holy words

Can never doubted be;

With them encouraged day by day,

I’m faithful unto Thee.

Oh, may Thy glory soon appear,

The foe be overthrown;

Thy promises be realized,

And we brought to Thy throne.

5 Thy saving arm a refuge is,

My Savior God, to me;

Thou as the Father keepeth them

Who put their trust in Thee.

The sheep and shepherd are of one,

The head and body same;

None e’er can pluck from out Thy hand

The child who trusts Thy Name.

6 A thousand hands won’t hinder me,

Nor will ten thousand eyes;

The thorns upon the road but help

Me onward to the prize.

Arise, my spirit and my heart,

And let the world go by;

The Lord of life will take me soon

To be with Him on high.

7 Thou healing sun! Thou hope of man!

I really love Thy ray.

Oh, righteous Lord! oh, glorious King!

I bow to Thee and pray:

Oh, may Thou soon ascend Thy throne

And quickly show Thy face;

Thy heav’nly kingdom may Thou found

And grant all men Thy grace.

8 The truth should triumph and be king,

And freedom should be queen;

But falsehood, which has rampant run,

Head of the world is seen.

We ask Thee, Truth, to quickly come

And bring Thy light from heav’n:

The foe be curshed and all Thy sons

Into Thy bosom giv’n.

644 12.12.12.8. with chorus

1 It may be at morn when the day is awaking,

When sunlight through darkness and shadow is breaking,

That Jesus will come in the fullness of glory,

To receive from the world His own.

O Lord Jesus, how long, how long

Ere we shout the glad song, Christ returneth! Hallelujah!

Hallelujah! Amen,

Hallelujah! Amen.

2 It may be at midday, it may be at twilight,

It may be, perchance, that the blackness of midnight

Will burst into light in the blaze of His glory,

When Jesus receives His own.

3 While hosts cry Hosanna, from heaven descending,

With glorified saints and the angels attending,

With grace on His brow, like a halo of glory,

Will Jesus receive His own.

4 O joy! O delight! should we go without dying,

No sickness, no sadness, no dread and no crying,

Caught up through the clouds with our Lord into glory,

When Jesus receives His own.

645 12.12.12.8. with chorus

1.  It may be at morn as the day we are greeting;

It may be the time when the saints all are meeting;

But one thing we know, for the Spirit bears witness,

That Jesus will come very soon!

O Lord Jesus, Amen!

The church soon will see Thee again!

“Thou art coming! Hallelujah!

Hallelujah, Amen !

Hallelujah, Amen!”

2 The days hasten by—there’s no time for delaying;

So grasping each moment by watching and praying

And in everything giving thanks and rejoicing,

We’ll welcome our Lord’s return.

3 An instant, a twinkling, and Jesus descending

Will come for His saints in His glory transcending.

He’ll come as the Bridegroom—as such we’ll behold Him—

To take to Himself His Bride!

4 What joy, what delight, when we finally meet Him!

The One whom we love—O what rapture to greet Him!

Our Lord and our life, our Beloved, our Bridegroom

Will take to Himself His Bride!

646 Irregular Meter

1 Lord, Thou wilt soon appear, Thy day is almost here.

Oh, how we love Thy coming soon! We have no other

Lord, life, or lover Than Thou, Lord Jesus, our Bridegroom!

2 The hour is drawing nigh, Soon we shall hear Thy cry

And see Thee in the clouds descend. Oh what an hour sweet

When Bride and Bridegroom meet

And love surpassing comprehend.

3 The moments fly apace, Soon we shall see Thy face!

Amen, Lord Jesus! Quickly come! We long Thyself to see

And with Thee ever be,

Thou who our inmost heart hath won.

4 ’Tis but a moment now; Thou, our Lord Bridegroom, Thou

Soon wilt return to claim Thy Bride.

O Hallelujah! ’Tis this we long for,

And Thou too wilt be satisfied.

647 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Face to face with Christ, my Savior,

Face to face—what will it be?

When with rapture I behold Him,

Jesus Christ who died for me.

Face to face I shall behold Him,

Far beyond the starry sky;

Face to face in all His glory,

I shall see Him by and by!

2 Only faintly now, I see Him,

With the darkling veil between,

But a blessed day is coming,

When His glory shall be seen.

3 What rejoicing in His presence,

When are banished grief and pain;

When the crooked ways are straightened,

And the dark things shall be plain.

4 Face to face! O blissful moment!

Face to face—to see and know;

Face to face with my Redeemer,

Jesus Christ who loves me so.

648 8.8.8.8.D.

1 Some day the silver cord will break,

And I no more as now shall sing;

But, O the joy when I shall wake

Within the presence of the King!

And I shall see Him face to face,

And tell the story, saved by grace:

And I shall see Him face to face,

And tell the story, saved by grace.

2 Some day my earthly house will fall,

I cannot tell how soon ‘twill be,

But this I know—my All in all

Has now a place with Him for me.

3 Or some day when my Lord will come,

And called to meet Him I’ll be blest,

He then will say to me, “Well done,”

And I shall enter into rest.

4 Some day, till then I’ll watch and wait,

My lamp all trimmed and burning bright,

That when my Savior I will greet,

My faith will then be changed to sight.

649 8.5.8.5.D.

1 ’Midst the darkness, storm, and sorrow,

One bright gleam I see;

Well I know the blessed morrow

Christ will come for me.

‘Midst the peace, the joy, the glory

And the light, God’s own,

Christ for me is watching, waiting,

Waiting ‘til I come.

2 Long the blessed Guide has led me,

By the desert road;

Now I see the coming splendor,

Splendor of my God.

There amidst the love and glow

He is waiting yet;

On His hands a name is graven

He can ne’er forget.

3 Who is this, who comes to meet me,

On the desert way,

As the Morning Star foretelling

God’s unclouded day?

He it is who came to win me,

On the cross of shame;

In His glow well I know Him,

Evermore the same.

4 O the blessed joy of meeting,

All the desert past;

O the wondrous words of greeting,

He shall speak at last!

He and I together ent’ring

The fair realm above;

He and I together sharing

All the Father’s love.

5 Where no shade nor stain can enter,

Nor the gold be dim,

In His holiness unsullied,

I shall walk with Him.

Meet companion then for Jesus,

From Him, for Him, made—

Glory of God’s grace forever

There in me displayed.

6 He who in His hour of sorrow

Bore the curse alone;

I who through the lonely desert

Trod where He had gone;

He and I, in that bright glory,

One deep joy shall share—

Mine, to be forever with Him;

His, that I am there.

650 8.8.8.4. with repeat

1 When my blest Lord will come again,

I will be saved from all my pain,

With all the saints I’ll follow Him,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

With all the saints I’ll follow Him,

O praise the Lord!

2 When I shall see Him face to face,

And dwell with Him thru endless days,

I will rejoice and sing His grace,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

I will rejoice and sing His grace,

O praise the Lord!

3 When I meet Him before the Throne,

My suff’rings then will all be gone,

The joy of vict’ry will be won,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

The joy of vict’ry will be won,

O praise the Lord!

4 In that day I will testify

That nothing with Christ’s life can vie,

What glorious rapture to the sky,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

What glorious rapture to the sky,

O praise the Lord!

5 May we in our Lord’s side e’er hide,

Be always one and ne’er divide,

That His heart may be satisfied,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

That His heart may be satisfied,

O praise the Lord!

6.  O come, our King, O come, dear Lord!

Receive us by Thy promised word,

And give the victors Thy reward,

O praise the Lord!

O praise the Lord! O praise the Lord!

And give the victors Thy reward,

O praise the Lord!
