# 643 8.6.8.6.D.

1.  My King will soon come back again,

The sky be filled with Him;

The universe to be redeemed

Will see His light therein.

The Lord will soon fulfill His plan,

His footsteps now I hear;

His glorious frame I faintly see

Beginning to appear.

2.  I’m longing for His presence blest

And dare not slothful be

While waiting for my Lord’s return,

His own dear self to see.

My only hope—that He may come

And change my faith to sight;

There is no other joy on earth

Which gives my heart delight.

3.  My heart is always with Himself,

My eyes are heavenward,

My lips would utter nothing else

Than meeting with my Lord.

The coming of the Lord draws nigh,

His coming is for me;

His promise ever standeth firm

And soon fulfilled I’ll see.

4.  My Savior, all Thy holy words

Can never doubted be;

With them encouraged day by day,

I’m faithful unto Thee.

Oh, may Thy glory soon appear,

The foe be overthrown;

Thy promises be realized,

And we brought to Thy throne.

5.  Thy saving arm a refuge is,

My Savior God, to me;

Thou as the Father keepeth them

Who put their trust in Thee.

The sheep and shepherd are of one,

The head and body same;

None e’er can pluck from out Thy hand

The child who trusts Thy Name.

6.  A thousand hands won’t hinder me,

Nor will ten thousand eyes;

The thorns upon the road but help

Me onward to the prize.

Arise, my spirit and my heart,

And let the world go by;

The Lord of life will take me soon

To be with Him on high.

7.  Thou healing sun! Thou hope of man!

I really love Thy ray.

Oh, righteous Lord! oh, glorious King!

I bow to Thee and pray:

Oh, may Thou soon ascend Thy throne

And quickly show Thy face;

Thy heav’nly kingdom may Thou found

And grant all men Thy grace.

8.  The truth should triumph and be king,

And freedom should be queen;

But falsehood, which has rampant run,

Head of the world is seen.

We ask Thee, Truth, to quickly come

And bring Thy light from heav’n:

The foe be curshed and all Thy sons

Into Thy bosom giv’n.

