651 Irregular Meter

1 Thou art coming, O my Savior,

Thou art coming, O my King,

In Thy beauty all resplendent,

In Thy glory all transcendent;

Well may we rejoice and sing;

Coming! In the opening east,

Herald brightness slowly swells:

Coming! O my glorious Priest,

Hear we not Thy golden bells?

2 Thou art coming, Thou art coming;

We shall meet Thee on Thy way;

We shall see Thee, we shall know Thee,

We shall bless Thee, we shall show Thee

All our hearts could never say:

What an anthem that will be,

Ringing out our love to Thee,

Pouring out our rapture sweet

At Thine own all-glorious feet.

3 Thou art coming, at Thy Table

We are witnesses for this;

While rememb’ring hearts Thou meetest

In communion clearest, sweetest,

Earnest of our coming bliss,

Showing not Thy death alone,

And Thy love exceeding great,

But Thy coming and Thy throne,

All for which we long and wait.

4 Oh, the joy to see Thee reigning,

Thee, my own beloved Lord!

Every tongue Thy Name confessing,

Worship, honor, glory, blessing,

Brought to Thee with one accord;

Thee, my Master and my Friend,

Vindicated and enthroned,

Unto earth’s remotest end

Glorified, adored, and owned!

652 7.6.7.6.D.

1 Hail to the Lord’s Anointed,

Great David’s greater Son!

Hail, in the time appointed,

His reign on earth begun!

He comes to break oppression,

To set the captive free;

To take away transgression,

And rule in equity.

2 He shall come down like showers

Upon the fruitful earth;

And love, joy, hope, like flowers,

Spring in His path to birth:

Before Him on the mountains

Shall peace, the herald, go;

And righteousness, in fountains,

From hill to valley flow.

3 Kings shall fall down before Him,

And gold and incense bring;

All nations shall adore Him,

His praise all people sing;

For He shall have dominion

O’er river, sea, and shore,

Far as the eagle’s pinion,

Or dove’s light wing can soar.

4 To Him shall prayer unceasing

And daily vows ascend;

His kingdom still increasing,

A kingdom without end.

The mountain dews shall nourish

A seed in weakness sown,

Whose fruit shall spread and flourish,

And shake like Lebanon.

5 O’er every foe victorious

He on His throne shall rest,

From age to age more glorious,

All-blessing and all-blest.

The tide of time shall never

His covenant remove;

His Name shall stand forever,

His changeless Name of Love.

653 9.7.9.7. with chorus

1 Rejoice! Rejoice! Our Bridegroom’s coming,

And the time will not be long

Before we hail that wedding morning

And lift up the glad new song.

Oh, wondrous day! Oh, glorious morning,

When the Christ we love shall come:

With vessels filled and lamps all burning

Let us welcome His return.

Rejoice! Rejoice! Our Bridegroom’s coming

And the time will not be long

Before we hail that wedding morning

And lift up the glad new song.

2 Oh, let us now redeem each moment,

More the precious oil to buy,

And have our vessels filled with ointment

Ere we hear the midnight cry.

3 Oh, what a joy it is preparing

For our wedding with the Lord,

E’en in the tribulations sharing

For the bliss of such reward!

4 Oh, with what rapture and rejoicing

Shall the wedding day begin;

And then a thousand years of dining

At the marriage feast with Him!

654 10.7.10.7. with chorus

1 When Jesus comes to reward His servants,

Whether it be noon or night,

Faithful to Him will He find us watching,

With our lamps all trimmed and bright?

Oh, can we say we are ready, brother?

Ready for the soul’s bright home?

Say, will He find you and me still watching,

Waiting, waiting when the Lord shall come?

2 If at the dawn of the early morning,

He shall call us one by one,

When to the Lord we restore our talents,

Will He answer thee?—”Well done!”

3 Have we been true to the trust He left us?

Do we seek to do our best?

If in our hearts there is naught condemns us,

We shall have a glorious rest.

4 Blessed are those whom the Lord finds watching,

In His glory they shall share;

If He shall come at the dawn or mid-night,

Will He find us watching there?

655 7.7.7.3.D. with chorus

1 Christ comes quickly for His Bride,

Wedding feast He will provide,

Garments bright and pure supplied—

Dress in time!

Taking Christ as life she’s dressed,

By much suffering stitched and pressed;

Righteous acts are thus possessed—

Dress in time!

Be in time! Be in time!

For the marriage feast of Jesus

Be in time!

If your soul life you deny

And the Spirit you apply,

Then you’ll fully qualify—Be in time!

2 Virgins Christ comes quickly for,

Those with oil an extra store,

Not the fools who oil ignore- Buy in time!

For the oil a price we pay,

Deal with self without delay,

Fill your vessels every day— Buy in time!

3 For His servants Christ will come

And reward each faithful one;

Slothful ones will be undone— Serve in time!

Make your single talent count,

All self’s problems now surmount,

Serve with Christ, the living fount— Serve in time!

4 Christ comes quickly for His grain,

Ripened firstfruits to obtain;

Unripe harvest will remain— Ripen now!

From earth’s water grain must dry,

From the world your soul deny;

To mature the self must die— Ripen now!

5 Overcomers Christ will take,

Those who all for Him forsake,

Those who of first love partake—Win in time!

All the deadness overcome,

With the living Christ be one,

Toward the goal now swiftly run—Win in time!

6 Christ comes for His kingdom too;

Heav’nly reign we must pursue,

Let His rule our self subdue—Yield in time!

Rebel self must be dethroned,

Lessons must not be postponed,

Quickly yield to Christ enthroned—Yield in time!

656 12.12.12.12. with chorus

1 Our faith to God-ward must in these days spread abroad

To show we’ve turned from idols to the living God.

We’ll mix His Word with faith by answering “Amen!”

And to Christ in the Word turn again and again.

Our work of faith must grow exceedingly,

The labor of our love increase abundantly,

His sanctifying work in us go on and on,

While in patience of hope we will watch till He come.

2 The love for all the brothers, in our midst is found,

But in these days our love must increase and abound.

The Lord direct our hearts into the love of God

And prepare us in full for the day of the Lord.

3 Our spirit, soul, and body wholly sanctified—

Our faithful Lord will do it to prepare His Bride,

While we amen His voice in matters great or small,

That we all may be ready to hear Jesus’ call.

4 The Lord Himself shall come, and we shall be with Him—

Oh, what a glorious hope! Come quickly, Lord, Amen.

We’d ever watchful be to see Thee in the air

And as sons of the day for that meeting prepare.

657 10.10.10.10. with chorus

1 Sing we the King who is coming to reign,

Glory to Jesus, the Lamb that was slain;

Righteousness, peace then His empire shall bring,

Joy to the nations when Jesus is King.

Come let us sing: Praise to our King,

Jesus our King, Jesus our King:

This is our song, who to Jesus belong:

Glory to Jesus, to Jesus our King.

2 All men shall dwell in His marvelous light,

Races long severed His love shall unite,

Justice and truth from His scepter shall spring,

Wrong shall be ended when Jesus is King.

3 All shall be well in His kingdom of peace,

Freedom shall flourish and wisdom increase,

Foe shall be friend when His triumph we sing,

Sword shall be sickle when Jesus is King.

4 Knowledge and fear of the Lord then shall be

As the deep waters that cover the sea;

All things shall be in the splendor of spring

And all harmonious when Jesus is King.

5 Kingdom of Christ, for thy coming we pray,

Hasten, O Father, the dawn of the day

When this new song Thy creation shall sing,

Satan is vanquished and Jesus is King.

658 15.15.15.6. with chorus

1 Lo, the kingdom of the world is now

The kingdom of the Lord!

O what joy to all the saints does His eternal reign afford!

Let us swell the mighty chorus of His praise in one accord—

The victory is won!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

The victory is won!

2.  That great dragon, the old serpent called the devil,

Down is cast;

Satan and his fallen angels’ long deceiving days are past!

Now our praises like a thunder through the universe shall blast—The
victory is won!

3 Now is come salvation, power, and the kingdom of our God;

The accuser of the brethren underneath our feet is trod!

The authority of Christ is now the church’s ruling rod—

The victory is won!

4.  By the Lamb’s redeeming blood th’ accuser

We have overcome;

By our word of testimony, all declaring, “It is done!”

Unto death, our souls not loving—all the glory to the Son!

The victory is won!

4.  Now rejoice and be exceeding glad!

What glory is displayed!

For the marriage of the Lamb,

the wife all ready now is made!

In fine linen, bright and pure, ’

twas granted her to be arrayed— The victory is won!

6 Now the devil’s in the lake of fire,

for John has seen him there;

Hallelujah, never more need we his provocations bear!

What a triumph for the saints his judgment boldly to

> Declare— The victory is won!

7 Now behold the greatest wonder—New Jerusalem descend!

She’s the building of the Triune God with man—a perfect blend!

She’s the Bride, prepared, adorned for Christ—of all God’s work, The
end! The victory is won!

8 It’s the tabernacle of our God, His dwelling place with men;

In His holiness and glory He’s expressed through all of them.

“It is done!” O brothers, see it! See the New Jerusalem!

The victory is won!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

The victory is won!

659 10.10.10.10. with repeat

1 Our goal—the holy city with the Lord,

It is our portion, ’tis where He’s adored;

Although our bodies still are living here,

Our spirits with our glorious Lord are there.

2 Our goal divine—the new Jerusalem—

That holy city made for God with men;

For all redeemed, who have Thy pathway trod,

Shall have the right to share the bliss with God.

3 And every time we toward that city gaze,

Then every time we long to see Thy face;

We long to hear the shout that calls to Thee,

With Thee to share Thy God eternally.

4 Our heart’s desire is not the peace so sweet,

Our longed for hope is not the joy we’ll meet;

But Thou Thyself, Thou art “our hope,” O Lord,

For ’tis Thyself that will be our reward.

5 O Jesus, Lord, we pray Thee hear our cry, Come!

Bring us to that city from on high!

That in that glory we may share with Thee,

Thy loving Self partake eternally .

6 O Lord, Thou sayest, “I make all things new,”

New heav’ns, new earth, and all within them too!

Our God Himself our portion then shall be;

O Lord, come quickly! Take us up with Thee.

(Repeat last line).

660 11.11.11.11. with chorus

1 He looked for a city and lived in a tent,

A pilgrim to glory right onward he went;

God’s promise his solace, so royal his birth,

No wonder he sought not the glories of earth.

City! O city fair!

God’s dwelling with man to eternity is there.

2 He looked for a city, his God should prepare;

No mansion on earth, could he covet or share,

For had not God told him, that royal abode

Awaited His pilgrims on ending the road.

3 He looked for a city; if sometimes he sighed

To be trudging the road, all earth’s glory denied,

The thought of that city changed sighing to song,

For the road might be rough, but it could not be long.

4 He looked for a city, his goal, Lord, we share

And know that bright city, which Thou dost prepare

Is ever our portion, since willing to be

Just pilgrims with Jesus, our roof a tent tree.

661 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Glorious things of thee are spoken,

Holy city of our God;

He whose word cannot be broken

Formed thee for His own abode;

On the Rock of Ages founded,

What can shake thy sure repose?

With salvation’s walls surrounded,

Thou may’st smile at all thy foes.

2 See the streams of living waters,

Springing from eternal love,

Well supply thy blessed members,

And all fear of want remove;

Who can faint, when such a river

Ever flows their thirst t’ assuage?

Grace which, like the Lord, the giver,

Never fails from age to age.

3 Blest constituents of Zion,

Washed in the Redeemer’s blood;

Jesus, whom their souls rely on,

Makes them kings and priests to God.

’Tis His love His people raises

Over self to reign as kings:

And as priests, His worthy praises,

Each his thankful offering brings.

4 Savior, if of Zion’s city

I, through grace, a member am,

Let the world deride or pity—

I will glory in Thy name.

Fading is the worldling’s pleasure,

All his boasted pomp and show;

Solid joys and lasting treasure

None but Zion’s members know.

662 10.10.10.10.10.10.

1 How true it is no heart may comprehend

The glory God prepareth for His own,

And what will happen when this age shall end;

But yet in vision Jesus hath made known

How fair and holy shall the Church descend,

Lit up with light of precious jasper stone.

2 And He shall make His Church all heavenly fair,

With-gold and pearls, and every radiant stone,

And reign in holiness and glory there,

And shine as suns and stars have never shone;

And He shall lead His Bride, His joy and care,

With blissful singing to His Father’s throne.

3 And then the blest communion shall have come,

Of God’s dear children meeting from afar;

Within His burning love they blend as one,

Yet each, according as His counsels are,

Shall have peculiar glory of his own,

As one star differeth from another star.

4 And God is all in all in that great day,

And He is their exceeding great Reward;

Their stream of life, their beautiful array,

Their food, their joy, their radiance, Christ the Lord;

The music of their wondrous song shall say,

How great the joy that passeth thought or word.

5 And this is that eternal life of heaven,

Laid up with Christ in God, the’ mystery

Of resurrection life which He hath given:

A fount of living waters full and free;

A life by which the gates of death are riven,

A life which on the throne of Christ shall be.

6 And here in this waste wilderness begun,

So soon as we believe in Christ aright,

And quickened by the Spirit of the Son,

Receive Him as our only life and light,

As all the branches in the vine are one,

So we are one forever in His sight.

7 Now come, Lord Jesus, quickly from above,

Do Thou sustain us on the desert road,

And draw us after Thee by might of love,

Our Fatherland art Thou, O love of God;

Once safe in Thee, no more shall we remove,

O Thou our everlasting sure abode.

663 8.6.8.6.D.

1 There is a stream which issues forth

From God’s eternal throne

And from the Lamb, a living stream,

Clear as the crystal stone.

In it doth grow the tree of life,

It makes the ransomed sing:

Its living draught revives the heart;

Hence all the joys do spring.

2 Such joys as are unspeakable,

And full of glory too;

Such splendid riches, meat and drink,

As worldlings do not know.

Eye hath not seen, nor ear hath heard,

For fancy ’tis concealed,

What Thou, Lord, hast laid up for Thine

And hast to me revealed.

3 I feel Thy touch, I hear Thy voice,

I taste Thy sweetest grace;

My soul doth leap: but, oh, that I

May see Thee face to face!

Then with the saints my soul shall feast

On joys that always last:

Blest be my God, the God of joy,

That gives here such a taste!

664 7.6.7.6.

1 No more in earthen vessels

God’s treasure then shall be,

But in unclouded beauty

Thou, Lord, wilt shine thru me.

2 Afar thru that gold vessel

God’s glory shineth bright;

There’ll be no need of sunshine,

For God will be the light.

3 With Christ, the Stone most precious,

God’s city shall be fair;

And He shall shine as jasper

In cloudless glow there:

4 Undimmed in that great vessel,

The glory of that light,

Illum’ning with its fulness

The earth in radiance bright.

5 All in His new creation

God’s glow there shall see;

The vessel for that shining

The Lamb’s own Bride shall be:

6 A golden vessel glorious,

That all who see adore

God in the Lamb in glory

Expressed forevermore.

665 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 Christ has a full redemption made:

What a wonderful Savior!

We are redeemed! the price is paid:

What a wonderful Savior!

What a wonderful Savior is Jesus, my Savior;

What a wonderful Savior is Jesus, my Lord!

2 I praise Him for the cleansing blood,

What a wonderful Savior!

That reconciled my soul to God,

What a wonderful Savior!

3 He cleanses me from all my sin:

What a wonderful Savior!

And now He reigns and rules within;

What a wonderful Savior!

4 He dwells within me day by day,

What a wonderful Savior!

And keeps me faithful all the way,

What a wonderful Savior!

5 He gives me overcoming power,

What a wonderful Savior!

And triumph in each conflict hour,

What a wonderful Savior!

6 To Him I’ve given all my heart,

What a wonderful Savior!

The world shall never share a part,

What a wonderful Savior!

666 10.10.10.6. with chorus

1 Jesus, my Savior, to Bethlehem came,

Laid in a manger to sorrow and shame;

O it was wonderful, blest be His name,

Seeking for me, for me:

Seeking for me, for me,

Seeking for me, for me;

O it was wonderful, blest be His name,

Seeking for me, for me.

2 Jesus, my Savior, on Calvary’s tree

Paid the great debt, and my soul He set free;

O it was wonderful—how could it be?

Dying for me, for me!

(Repeat last two lines of each stanza for chorus)

3 Jesus, my Savior, the same as of old,

While I was wand’ring afar from the fold,

Gently and long did He plead with my soul,

Calling for me, for me!

4 Jesus, my Savior, shall come from on high.

Sweet is the promise as weary years fly:

O I shall see Him descend from the sky,

Coming for me, for me!

667 11.10.11.10. with chorus

1 One day when heaven was filled with His praises,

One day when sin was as black as could be,

Jesus came forth to be born of a virgin—

Dwelt among men, my example is He!

Living, He loved me; dying, He saved me;

Buried, He carried my sins far away;

Rising, He justified freely forever:

One day He’s coming—O glorious day!

2 One day they led Him up Calvary’s mountain,

One day they nailed Him to die on the tree;

Suffering anguish, despised and rejected;

Bearing our sins, my Redeemer is He.

3 One day they left Him alone in the garden,

One day He rested, from suffering free;

Angels came down o’er His tomb to keep vigil;

Hope of the hopeless, my Savior is He.

4 One day the grave could Conceal Him no longer,

One day the stone rolled away from the door;

Then He arose, over death He had conquered;

Now is ascended, my Lord evermore.

5 One day the trumpet will sound for His coming,

One day the skies with His glory will shine;

Wonderful day, my beloved ones bringing;

Glorious Savior, this Jesus is mine!

668 8.7.8.7. with chorus

1 The Great Physician now is near,

The sympathizing Jesus;

He speaks the drooping heart to cheer,

Oh, hear the voice of Jesus!

Sweetest note in seraph song;

Sweetest name on mortal tongue;

Sweetest carol ever sung:

Jesus, blessed Jesus!

2 Your many sins are all forgiv’n,

Oh, hear the voice of Jesus;

The veil ‘twixt you and God is riven,

Redemption wrought by Jesus.

3 All glory to the dying Lamb!

I now believe in Jesus;

I love the blessed Savior’s name,

I love the name of Jesus.

4 His name dispels my guilt and fear,

No other name but Jesus;

Oh, how my soul delights to hear

The precious name of Jesus!

669 Irregular Meter

1 We have heard the joyful sound:

Jesus saves! Jesus saves!

Spread the tidings all around:

Jesus saves! Jesus saves!

Bear the news to every land,

Climb the steeps and cross the waves;

Onward!—’tis our Lord’s command;

Jesus saves! Jesus saves!

2 Waft it on the rolling tide,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

Tell to sinners far and wide,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

Sing, ye islands of the sea,

Echo back, ye ocean caves;

Earth shall keep her jubilee,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves.

3 Sing above the battle’s strife,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

By His death and endless life,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

Sing it softly thru the

When the heart for mercy craves,

Sing in triumph o’er the tomb,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves.

4 Give the winds a mighty voice,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

Let the nations now rejoice.

Jesus saves, Jesus saves;

Shout salvation full and free,

Highest hills and deepest’ caves,

This our song of victory,

Jesus saves, Jesus saves.

670 8.5.8.5.D. with chorus

1 O how sweet the glorious message,

Simple faith may claim;

Yesterday, today, forever,

Jesus is the same.

Still He loves to save the sinful,

Heal the sick and lame;

Cheer the mourner, still the tempest;

Glory to His name!

Yesterday, today, forever,

Jesus is the same,

All may change, but Jesus never!

Glory to His name,

Glory to His name,

Glory to His name;

All may change, but Jesus never!

Glory to His name.

2 He who was the friend of sinners,

Seeks thee, lost one, now;

Sinner, come, and at His footstool,

Penitently bow.

He who said, “I’ll not condemn thee,

Go and sin no more,”

Speaks to thee that word of pardon,

As in days of yore.

3 Oft on earth He healed the suff’rer,

By His mighty hand;

Still our sicknesses and sorrows,

Go at His command.

He who gave His healing virtue,

To a woman’s touch;

To the faith that claims His fulness,

Still will give as much.

671 11.9.11.9. with chorus

1 Oh, how dark the night that wrapt my spirit round!

Oh, how deep the woe my Savior found

When He walked across the waters of my soul,

Bade my night disperse and made me whole!

All the way to Calvary He went for me,

He went for me, He went for me;

All the way to Calvary He went for me,

He died to set me free.

2 Tremblingly a sinner bowed before His face,

Naught I knew of pardon, God’s free grace;

Heard a voice so melting, “Cease thy wild regret,

Jesus bought thy pardon, paid thy debt.”

3 O ’twas wondrous love the Savior showed for me!

When He left His throne for Calvary,

When He bore my trespass, bore it all alone;

Praise His Name forever, make it known.

672 6.6.6.6. with chorus

1 I hear the Savior say,

“Thy strength indeed is small,

Child of weakness, watch and pray,

Find in Me thine all in all.”

Jesus paid it all,

All to Him I owe;

Sin had left a crimson stain,

He washed it white as snow.

2 Lord, now indeed I find

Thy pow’r, and Thine alone,

Can change the leper’s spots,

And melt the heart of stone.

3 For nothing good have I

Whereby Thy grace to claim—

I’ll wash my garments white

In the blood of Calv’ry’s Lamb.

4 And when, before the throne,

I stand in Him complete,

“Jesus died my soul to save,”

My lips shall still repeat.

673 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 Alas, and did my Savior bleed?

And did my Sovereign die?

Would He devote that sacred head

For such a worm as I?

At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light,

And the burden of my heart rolled away,

It was there by faith I received my sight,

And now I am happy all the day!

2 Was it for sins that I had done

He groaned upon the tree?

Amazing pity! grace unknown!

And love beyond degree!

3 Well might the sun in darkness hide,

And shut His glories in,

When Christ, the mighty Maker, died

For man, His creature’s sin.

4 Thus might I hide my blushing face

While His dear cross appears.

Dissolve my heart in thankfulness,

And melt mine eyes to tears.

5 But drops of grief can ne’er repay

The debt of love I owe;

Here, Lord, I give myself away,

’Tis all that I can do.

674 8.8.6.8.8.6.

1.  Why should I worry, doubt and fear?

Has God not caused His Son to bear

My sins upon the tree?

The debt that Christ for me has paid,

Would God another mind have made

To claim again from me?

2 Redemption full the Lord has made,

And all my debts has fully paid,

From law to set me free.

I fear not for the wrath of God,

For I’ve been sprinkled with His blood,

It wholly covers me.

3 For me forgiveness He has gained,

And full acquittal was obtained,

All debts of sin are paid;

God would not have His claim on two,

First on His Son, my Surety true,

And then upon me laid.

4 So now I have full peace and rest,

My Savior Christ hath done the best

And set me wholly free;

By His all-efficacious blood

I ne’er could be condemned by God,

For He has died for me!

675 Irregular Meter

1 Free from the law—oh, happy condition!

Jesus hath bled, and there is remission;

Cursed by the law and bruised by the fall,

Christ hath redeemed us once for all.

Once for all—oh, sinner, receive it;

Once for all—oh, doubter, believe it;

Cling to the cross, the burden will fall,

Christ hath redeemed us once for all.

2 There on the cross your burden upbearing,

Thorns on His brow your Savior is wearing;

Never again your sin need appall,

You have been pardoned once for all.

3 Now we are free—there’s no condemnation;

Jesus provides a perfect salvation:

“Come unto Me,” oh, hear His sweet call,

Come, and He saves us once for all.

4 Children of man—oh, glorious calling,

Surely His grace will keep us from falling;

Passing from death to life at His call,

Blessed salvation once for all.

676 7.5.7.5.D.

1 Nothing either great or small—

Nothing, sinner, no;

Jesus did it, did it all,

Long, long ago.

“It is finished!” yes, indeed,

Finished every jot:

Sinner, this is all you need—

Tell me, is it not?

2 When He, from His lofty throne,

Stooped to do and die,

Everything was fully done;

Hearken to His cry:

3 Weary, working, burdened one,

Wherefore toil you so?

Cease your doing; all was done

Long, long ago.

4 Till to Jesus’ work you cling

By a simple faith,

“Doing” is a deadly thing—

“Doing” ends in death.

5 Cast your deadly “doing” down—Down at Jesus’ feet;

Stand in Him, in Him alone, Gloriously complete.

677 9.9.9.9. with chorus

1 Christ our Redeemer died on the cross,

Died for the sinner, paid all his due;

Sprinkle your soul with the blood of the Lamb,

“And I will pass, will pass over you.”

“When I see the blood,

When I see the blood,

When I see the blood,

I will pass, I will pass over you.”

2 Chiefest of sinners, Jesus will save;

All He has promised, that will He do;

Wash in the fountain opened for sin,

“And I will pass, will pass over you.”

3 Judgment is coming, all will be there,

Each one receiving justly his due;

Hide in the saving, sin-cleansing blood,

“And I will pass, will pass over you.”

4 O great compassion! O boundless love!

O loving kindness, faithful and true!

Find peace and shelter under the blood,

“And I will pass, will pass over you.”

678 8.6.8.6. with repeat

1 There is a fountain filled with blood

Drawn from Immanuel’s veins;

And sinners, plunged beneath that flood,

Lose all their guilty stains:

Lose all their guilty stains,

Lose all their guilty stains;

And sinners, plunged beneath that flood,

Lose all their guilty stains.

2 The dying thief rejoiced to see

That fountain in his day;

And there may I, though vile as he,

Wash all my sins away.

3 Dear dying Lamb, Thy precious blood

Shall never lose its power,

Till all the ransomed ones of God

Be saved to sin no more.

4 E’er since by faith I saw the stream

Thy flowing wounds supply,

Redeeming love has been my theme,

And shall be till I die.

5 When this poor lisping, stammering tongue

Lies silent in the grave,

Then in a nobler, sweeter song,

I’ll sing Thy power to save.

(Repeat the last two lines of each stanza)

679 11.9.11.9. with chorus

1 Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing pow’r?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

Are you fully trusting in His grace this hour?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

Are you washed in the blood,

In the soul-cleansing blood of the Lamb?

Are your garments spotless? Are they white as snow?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

2 Are you walking daily by the Savior’s side?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

Do you rest each moment in the Crucified?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

3 When the Bridegroom cometh will your robes be white?

Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?

Will your soul be ready for His presence bright,

And be washed in the blood of the Lamb?

4 Lay aside the garments that are stained with sin,

And be washed in the blood of the Lamb;

There’s a fountain flowing for the soul unclean,

O be washed in the blood of the Lamb.

680 Irregular Meter

1 What can wash away my sin?

Nothing but the blood of Jesus;

What can make me whole again?

Nothing but the blood of Jesus.

Oh! precious is the flow

That makes me white as snow;

No other fount I know,

Nothing but the blood of Jesus.

2 For my cleansing this I see—

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

For my pardon this my plea—

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

3 Nothing can my sin erase—

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

Naught of works, ’tis all of grace

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

4 This is all my hope and peace—

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

This is all my righteousness—

Nothing but the blood of Jesus!

681 10.9.10.8. with chorus

1 Would you be free from your burden of sin?

There’s power in the blood, power in the blood;

Would you o’er evil a victory win?

There’s wonderful power in the blood.

There is power, power, wonder-working power,

In the blood of the Lamb;

There is power, power, wonder-working power,

In the precious blood of the Lamb.

2 Would you be free from your passion and pride?

There’s power in the blood, power in the blood;

for a cleansing to Calvary’s tide,

There’s wonderful power in the blood.

3 Would you be whiter, much whiter than snow?

There’s power in the blood, power in the blood;

Sin-stains are lost in its life-giving flow,

There’s wonderful power in the blood.

4 Would you do service for Jesus your. King?

There’s power in the blood, power in the blood;

Would you live daily His praises to sing?

There’s wonderful power in the blood.

682 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 O now I see the cleansing wave!

The fountain deep and wide;

Jesus, my Lord, mighty to save,

Points to His wounded side.

The cleansing stream I see, I see;

I plunge, and O it cleanseth me!

O praise the Lord it cleanseth me!

It cleanseth me, yes, cleanseth me.

2 I see the dear Redeemer raised,

I hear the speaking blood;

It speaks! My spirit is amazed!

And quickened by its flood.

3 I rise to walk in God’s own light

Above the world and sin,

With heart renewed and garments white

And Christ enthroned within.

683 8.5.8.3.D.

1 Precious, precious blood of Jesus,

Shed on Calvary;

Shed for rebels, shed for sinners,

Shed for thee.

Precious, precious blood of Jesus

Ever flowing free;

Oh, believe it; Oh, receive it,

’Tis for thee.

2 Precious, precious blood of Jesus,

Let it make thee whole;

Let it flow in mighty cleansing,

O’er thy soul.

3 Though thy sins are red like crimson,

Deep in scarlet glow,

Jesus’ precious blood shall wash thee,

White as snow.

4 Precious blood that hath redeemed us!

All the price is paid;

Perfect pardon now is offered,

Peace is made.

5 Now the holiest with boldness

We may enter in;

For the open fountain cleanseth

From all sin.

6 Precious blood, by this we conquer

In the fiercest fight,

Sin and Satan overcoming

By its might.

7.  Precious blood whose full redemption

Makes us nigh to God;

Precious blood, our way of glory,

Praise and laud.

684 8.4.8.4.8.8.8.4.

1 One there is above all others,

Oh, how He loves!

His is love beyond a brother’s,

Oh, how He loves!

Earthly friends may fail or leave us,

One day soothe, the next day grieve us;

But this Friend will ne’er deceive us:

Oh, how He loves!

2 ’Tis eternal life to know Him,

Oh, how He loves!

Think, oh, think how much we owe Him,

Oh, how He loves!

With His precious blood He bought us,

In the wilderness He sought us,

To His flock He safely brought us:

Oh, how He loves!

3 Blessed Jesus! would you know Him?

Oh, how He loves!

Give yourselves entirely to Him,

Oh, how He loves!

Think no longer of the morrow,

From the past new courage borrow,

Jesus carries all your sorrow:

Oh, how He loves!

4 All your sins shall be forgiven,

Oh, how He loves!

Backward shall your foes be driven,

Oh, how He loves!

Best of blessings He’ll provide you,

Nought but good shall e’er betide you,

Safe to glory He will guide you:

Oh, how He loves!

685 10.4.10.7.4.10.

1 Come let us sing of a wonderful love,

Tender and true;

Out of the heart of the Father above,

Streaming to me and to you:

Wonderful love

Dwells in the heart of the Father above.

2 Jesus, the Savior, this gospel to tell,

Joyfully came;

Came with the helpless and hopeless to dwell,

Sharing their sorrow and shame;

Seeking the lost,

Saving, redeeming at measureless cost.

3 Jesus is seeking the wanderers yet;

Why do they roam?

Love only waits to forgive and forget;

Home! weary wanderers, home!

Wonderful love

Dwells in the heart of the Father above.

4 Come to my heart, O Thou wonderful love,

Come and abide,

Lifting my life till it rises above

Envy and falsehood and pride;

Seeking to be

Lowly and humble, a learner of Thee.

686 10.6.10.6. with chorus

1 There is no love like the love of Jesus,

Never to fade or fall,

Till into the rest of the house of God

He has gathered us all.

Jesus’ love, precious love,

Boundless, and pure, and free;

Oh, turn to that love, weary wand’ring soul;

Jesus pleadeth for thee.

2 There is no heart like the heart of Jesus,

Filled with a tender love;

No throb nor throe that our hearts can know,

But He feels it above.

3 There is no eye like the eye of Jesus,

Piercing so far away;

Ne’er out of the sight of its tender light

Can the wanderer stray.

4 There is no voice like the voice of Jesus,

Tender and sweet its chime;

Like musical ring of a flowing spring

In the bright summertime.

5 Oh, let us hark to the voice of Jesus!

Then we shall never roam;

And we shall rest on His loving breast,

And with Him we’ll be one!

687 9.9.9.9. with chorus

1 Marvelous grace of our loving Lord,

Grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt,

Yonder on Calvary’s mount outpoured,

There where the blood of the Lamb was spilt.

Grace, grace, God’s grace,

Grace that will pardon and cleanse within;

Grace, grace, God’s grace,

Grace that is greater than all our sin.

2 Sin and despair like the sea waves cold,

Threaten the soul with infinite loss;

Grace that is greater, yes, grace untold,

Points to the Refuge, the mighty Cross.

3 Dark is the stain that we cannot hide,

What can avail to wash it away?

Look! there is flowing a crimson tide;

Whiter than snow you may be today.

4 Marvelous, infinite, matchless grace,

Freely bestowed on all who believe;

You that are longing to see His face,

Will you this moment His grace receive?

688 9.8.9.8. with chorus

1 Under the burdens of guilt and care,

Many a spirit is grieving,

Who in the joy of the Lord might share,

Life everlasting receiving.

Life! life! eternal life!

Jesus alone is the Giver:

Life! life! abundant life!

Glory to Jesus forever!

2 Burdened one, why will you longer bear

Sorrows from which He releases?

Open your heart, and rejoicing, share

Life more abundant in Jesus.

3 Leaving the mountain, the streamlet grows,

Flooding the vale with a river;

So, from the hill of the Cross, there flows

Life more abundant forever.

4 Oh, for the flood on the thirsty land!

Oh, for a mighty revival!

Oh, for a sanctified, fearless band,

Ready to hail its arrival!

689 10.10.10.6. with chorus

1 Oh, what a Savior that He died for me!

From condemnation He hath made me free;

“He that believeth on the Son” saith He,

“Hath everlasting life.”

“Verily, verily, I say unto you;”

“Verily, verily,” message ever new!

“He that believeth on the Son”—’tis true—

“Hath everlasting life?”

2 All my iniquities on Him were laid,

All my indebtedness by Him was paid;

All who believe on Him, the Lord hath said,

“Hath everlasting life.”

3 Though poor and needy, I can trust my Lord;

Though weak and sinful, I believe His word;

Oh, glad message; every child of God

“Hath everlasting life.”

4 Though all unworthy, yet I will not doubt;

For him that cometh He will not cast out:

“He that believeth”—oh, the good news shout!

“Hath everlasting life.”

690 8.8.8.7.

1 I’ve tried in vain a thousand ways

My fears to quell, my hopes to raise;

But what I need, the Bible says,

Is ever, only Jesus.

2 My soul is night, my heart is steel—

I cannot see, I cannot feel;

For light, for life I must appeal

In simple faith to Jesus.

3 He died, He lives, He reigns, He pleads;

There’s love in all His words and deeds;

There’s all a guilty sinner needs

Forevermore in Jesus.

4 Though some should sneer, and some should blame,

I’ll go with all my guilt and shame;

I’ll go to Him because His name,

Above all names, is Jesus.

691 11.8.11.8. with chorus

1 The whole world was lost in the darkness of sin;

The light of the world is Jesus;

Like sunshine at noonday His glory shone in,

The light of the world is Jesus.

Come to the light, ’tis shining for thee;

Sweetly the light has dawned upon me;

Once I was blind, but now I can see;

The light of the world is Jesus.

2 No darkness have we who in Jesus abide,

The light of the world is Jesus;

We walk in the light when we follow our Guide,

The light of the world is Jesus.

3 Ye dwellers in darkness with sin-blinded eyes,

The light of the world is Jesus;

Go, wash, at His bidding, and light will arise;

The light of the world is Jesus.

692 11.11.11.6. with chorus

1 A ruler once came to Jesus by night,

To ask Him the way of salvation and light;

The Master made answer in words true and plain,

“Ye must be born again!”

“Ye must be born again!”

“Ye must be born again!”

“I verily, verily say unto thee,

Ye must be born again!”

2 Ye children of men, attend to the word

So solemnly uttered by Jesus, the Lord,

And let not this message to you be in vain,

“Ye must be born again.”

3 Oh, ye who would enter that glorious rest,

And sing with the ransomed the song of the blest;

The life everlasting if ye would obtain,

“Ye must be born again.”

693 11.7.11.7. with chorus

1 Softly and tenderly Jesus is calling—

Calling for you and for me;

Patiently Jesus is waiting and watching—

Watching for you and for me!

Come home! come home!

Ye who are weary, come home!

Earnestly, tenderly, Jesus is calling,

Calling, O sinner, come home!

2 Why should we tarry when Jesus is pleading—

Pleading for you and for me?

Why should we linger and heed not His mercies—

Mercies for you and for me?

3 Time is now fleeting, the moments are passing—

Passing from you and from me;

Shadows are gathering, death-beds are coming—

Coming for you and for me!

4 Oh, for the wonderful love He has promised—

Promised for you and for me!

Though we have sinned, He has mercy and pardon—

Pardon for you and for me!

694 10.8.10.7. with chorus

1 Jesus is tenderly calling thee home—

Calling today, calling today!

Why from the sunshine of love wilt thou roam,

Farther and farther away?

Calling today! calling today!

Jesus is calling, is tenderly calling today!

2 Jesus is calling the weary to rest,

Calling today! calling today!

Bring Him thy burden and thou shalt be blest:

He will not turn thee away.

3 Jesus is waiting, O come to Him now!

Waiting today! waiting today!

Come with thy sins, at His feet lowly bow;

Come, and no longer delay.

4 Jesus is pleading, O list to His voice!

Hear Him today! hear Him today!

They who believe on His name shall rejoice:

Quickly arise, come away!

695 8.6.8.6. with chorus

1 Come, every soul by sin oppressed,

There’s mercy with the Lord;

And He will surely give you rest

By trusting in His Word.

Only trust Him! Only trust Him!

Only trust Him now!

He will save you! He will save you!

He will save you now!

2 For Jesus shed His precious blood

Rich blessings to bestow;

Plunge now into the crimson flood

That washeth white as snow.

3 Yes, Jesus is the Truth, the Way,

That leads you into rest;

Believe in Him without delay,

And you are fully blest.

4 Come then, and join the holy band,

And on to glory go;

In Christ’s redemption take your stand,

And all His goodness know.

696 11.11.11.7. with chorus

1 “Whosoever heareth!” shout, shout the sound!

Send the blessed tidings all the world around;

Spread the joyful news wherever man is found:

“Whosoever will may come!”

“Whosoever will! whosoever will!”

Send the proclamation over vale and hill;

’Tis a loving Father calls the wand’rer home:

“Whosoever will may come!”

2 “Whosoever cometh” need not delay,

Now the door is open, enter while you may;

Jesus is the true, the only Living Way:

“Whosoever will may come!”

3 “Whosoever will!” the promise is secure;

“Whosoever will,” forever must endure;

“Whosoever will!” ’tis life forevermore;

“Whosoever will may come.”

697 8.7.8.7.D.

1 Have you any room for Jesus,

He who bore your load of sin?

As He knocks and asks admission,

Sinner, will you let Him in?

Room for Jesus, King of glory!

Hasten now, His word obey;

Swing the heart’s door widely open,

Bid Him enter while you may.

2 Room for pleasure, room for business,

But for Christ the Crucified,

Not a place that He can enter,

In the heart for which He died?

3 Have you any room for Jesus,

As in grace He calls again?

O, today is time accepted,

Tomorrow you may call in vain.

698 10.8.10.8. with chorus

1 If you are tired of the load of your sin,

Let Jesus come into your heart;

If you desire a new life to begin,

Let Jesus come into your heart.

Just now, your doubtings give o’er;

Just now, reject Him no more;

Just now, throw open the door;

Let Jesus come into your heart.

2 If ’tis for purity now that you sigh,

Let Jesus come into your heart;

Fountains for cleansing are flowing near by,

Let Jesus come into your heart.

3 If there’s a tempest your voice cannot still,

Let Jesus come into your heart;

If there’s a void this world never can fill,

Let Jesus come into your heart.

699 Irregular Meter

1 Hark, the Savior’s knocking, knocking,

Knocking at your heart!

Oh, do not be hardened, hardened,

Lest He should depart.

Rise and open up your heart,

Quickly let Him in;

Life divine He’ll give you, give you,

And forgive your sin.

Let Him in! Let Him in!

He’s knocking at your heart;

Let Him in! Oh, let Him in!

Let Him in your heart.

2 Why should you still tarry, tarry,

Keep Him waiting there?

He is kind and gracious, gracious,

Merciful and dear.

Listen to His tender voice,

Do not grieve His heart;

Won’t you let Him enter, enter,

And His grace impart.

700 9.9.9.7. with chorus

1 “Almost persuaded” now to believe;

“Almost persuaded” Christ to receive;

Seems now some soul to say,

“Go, Spirit, go Thy way,

Some more convenient day

On Thee I’ll call.”

2 “Almost persuaded,” come, come today;

“Almost persuaded,” turn not away;

Jesus invites you here,

Angels are ling’ring near,

Prayers rise from hearts so dear;

O wand’rer, come!

3 Oh, be persuaded! Christ never fails—

Oh, be persuaded! His blood avails—

Can save from every sin,

Cleanse you without, within—

Will you not let Him in?

Open the door!

4 “Almost persuaded,” harvest is past!

“Almost persuaded,” doom comes at last;

“Almost” cannot avail;

“Almost” is but to fail!

Sad, sad that bitter wail—

“Almost—but lost!”

5 Be now persuaded, oh, sinner, hear!

Be now persuaded, Jesus is near;

His voice is pleading still,

Turn now with heart and will,

Peace will your spirit fill—

Oh, turn today!

