# 658 15.15.15.6. with chorus

1.  Lo, the kingdom of the world is now

The kingdom of the Lord!

O what joy to all the saints does His eternal reign afford!

Let us swell the mighty chorus of His praise in one accord—

The victory is won!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

Vict’ry, vict’ry, Hallelujah!

The victory is won!

2.  That great dragon, the old serpent called the devil,

Down is cast;

Satan and his fallen angels’ long deceiving days are past!

Now our praises like a thunder through the universe shall blast—The
victory is won!

3.  Now is come salvation, power, and the kingdom of our God;

The accuser of the brethren underneath our feet is trod!

The authority of Christ is now the church’s ruling rod—

The victory is won!

4.  By the Lamb’s redeeming blood th’ accuser

We have overcome;

By our word of testimony, all declaring, “It is done!”

Unto death, our souls not loving—all the glory to the Son!

The victory is won!

4.  Now rejoice and be exceeding glad!

What glory is displayed!

For the marriage of the Lamb,

the wife all ready now is made!

In fine linen, bright and pure, ’

twas granted her to be arrayed— The victory is won!

6.  Now the devil’s in the lake of fire,

for John has seen him there;

Hallelujah, never more need we his provocations bear!

What a triumph for the saints his judgment boldly to

> Declare— The victory is won!

7.  Now behold the greatest wonder—New Jerusalem descend!

She’s the building of the Triune God with man—a perfect blend!

She’s the Bride, prepared, adorned for Christ—of all God’s work, The
end! The victory is won!

8.  It’s the tabernacle of our God, His dwelling place with men;

In His holiness and glory He’s expressed through all of them.

“It is done!” O brothers, see it! See the New Jerusalem!

The victory is won!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

Hallelujah, hallelujah!

The victory is won!

