# 794 9.8.9.6.8.8.8.7. with chorus

1.  Wonderful grand new song of the Lamb;

Glory to God! Glory to God!

Marvelous news bringing joy to men;

Glory to God on high!

Jesus my Lord came down to earth,

Leaving His glory us to save,

Such wondrous grace beyond compare,

For sinners as I He cares.

Shout of His praise, let the heart resound,

Glory to God! Glory to God!

Never the world knew such matchless song!

Glory to God on high!

2.  Hark to the rhymes of the heav’nly song;

Glory to God! Glory to God!

Jesus is love, and He is light;

Glory to God on high!

All guilty sinners born to die

Who hopelessly in darkness cry,

Help from the Lord won’t be denied—

O come and be justified!

3.  Lift up your voice for the judgement’s past;

Glory to God! Glory to God!

Risen with Christ, we with Him are one;

Glory to God on high!

O death and sin, where is thy sting?

On yonder shore we stand and sing!

See how the Red Sea drowns our foes—

Salvation to us is told!

4.  Sing, for He’s coming to take the saints;

Glory to god! Glory to God!

He tarries not, for the Church’s full grown;

Glory to God on high!

What we’ve long pined for now’s in sight,

All yearning hearts are satisfied;

Whispers of love we’ll ever breathe,

One future with Him we share!

5.  Sing o’er and o’er, make a joyful noise;

Glory to God! Glory to God!

Ring out this theme, sing forevermore;

Glory to God on high!

Sing, till the whole world hear our voice;

Sing, till all heav’n and earth rejoice—

All new creatures,

lift your voice!

